MINUTES OF THE DIRECTORS' MEETINGS,
CONFIDENTIAL CIRCULARS
1924
MINUTES OF THE DIRECTORS' MEETINGS
1924
nos 1C2:-127
VOM
Confidentiel
tu *%ji /trÿ(^f, f / ? / / —
SOCIETE DES N1TI01ÏS.
'ir
ec
and
Quitted to Under-retaries-" ener. 1 Directors »
Director's Meeting Nc 102
Réunion du Comité des Directeurs Mereredi 16 janvier 1924,
\
Présents :
le Secrétaire Général
Prof.Attolico
Sir Herbert /unes
M3 Colboo
M. Cernert
M.Mantoux
Prof. Van Hamel
M.Madariaga
M.Haas
M,Ha leoki
lie Stencek
McBonnet ( Secrétaire )
Lo Secrétaire Général constate qu'au cours de la période des Eetes de Ho81 et au -Jour de l’An, il ne s'est produit aucun évènement d'une importance vitale pour la Société des Nations. Mais, en revanche, une période d'activité s'annonce maintenant. Vendredi prochain se réunit le Comité des juristes chargé d'étudier, pour le Conseil, diverses questions d'interprétation du Pacte. Il semble que l'ajournement de ce Comité, dont la réunion avait d'abord été envisagée avant le dernier Conseil, ait été une masure heureuse. les problèmes soumis aux juristes seront, à coup sûr, discutés d'une manière absolument objective; cinq ou six sema inesblus tôt on aurait couru le risque de voir ses débats susciter plus de passion.
Une importante réunion est également en vue: celle de la
- 2 -
Sous-Commission natale qui doit préparer l’extension des principes du Traité de Washington. Cette Commission comprendra, outre les membres ordinaires, un assez grand nombre d'experts navals envoyés par les pays les plus intéressés à la question, la date et le lieu en seront fixés incessamment .
En ce qui concerne l'emprunt hongrois,les nouvelles ne sont pas tout à fait aussi sat isf ai santés, tout au moins relativement au placement de l'emprunt. Il semble en effet que le marché financier de Londres soit plutôt réservé, en raison du changement probable de Gouvernement en Angleterre. Il pourrait être difficile, dons ces conditions, de placer un emprunt à long terme; mais on pourra peut-être d'abord recourir, comme dans le co.s de l'Autriche, à l'emprunt à court terme. D'ailleurs la situation au point de vue du marché financier sera probablement plus claire dans quelques semaines.
Malgré cette incertitude du moment au su .jet de la Hongrie, les conditions de la politique générale en Europe présentent de nombreux symptômes favorables à la Société des Nations, le traité entre l'Italie et le Royaume des Serbes-Croates-Slovènes est à coup sur un des indices les plus heureux de cette évolution; de même le Traité franco-tchèque, qui stipule notamment l'arbitrage obligatoire. Il convient de rapprocher ces événements récents dos débats qui ont eu lieu à la dernière Assemblée sur la nature des traités internationaux à conclure dans le cadre de la Société des Nations. Enfin un passage du discours du Trône prononcé au Parlement anglais annonce la ferme décision d'appuyer le développement de la Société des Nations..
Le Prof. ATTOLICQ dit quo la Commission de contrôle a principalement discuté les pensions et diversea questions intéressant le personnel; elle tiendra une nouvelle réunion le 26 mais.
-3.
Sir Horbcrt ALEES remot aux membres du Comité un résumé confidentiel des recettes et dépensas do la Société dos Rations ¡ati cours do lTannéo 1922j II fait remarquer quo les comotos no se-rnnt clos que le 1E février 1924, et quo divers chiffres seront on ocrsséquence medifiés, car il manque oncero un ceitair. nombre de notes *
H* HAD AliX A G A annonce que la Oomroission temporaire rnixto pour le désarraomant est convoquée pour le 4 février à Genève* Il est probable que la Commission permanente militaire sc réunira do son côté le 6 février,.
A ça propos, revenant sur la réunion de la Sous-commission navale chargée dTétudier l1extension dos principes du Traité da Washington, le Dr* van H/IIEL se demande s1 il n'y a pas que..que inconvénient à tenir cette réunion en dehors de Genève; l1impression pouvant etre crééo que la causo on résida dans la dépêcha des Soviets annonçant quTil leur est imooâsible dTenvoyor leurs délégués en territoire suisse» Da meme difficulté peut en effet se reproduira surtout si la Société est amenée à avoir dos rolations plus fréquentes avec le Gouvernement de ,-.oscou* Peut-etro y aurait-il avantage, en conséquence, à ce quo Des assurances pussent ctre données que tous les délégués envoyés par les Gouvernements au siège de la Société des Rations sont assurés do recevoir toute la protection personnelle désirable*
De la discussion qui srengsge à ce propos, il ressort que la Commission navale no tient qu’une réunion drexperts ohaKgéé do faire un travail essontielloment préparatoire« La remarque du Dr van Hamel présente peur i'1’avenir un intérêt évident» liais, pour des raisons techniques, il est probable que la réunion de la Commission navale eût été de toute manière tenus en dehors de Genève; il an avait été question avant meme que la dépocfce du lioscou nT atteignît le Secrétariat«. D’autre part, des cas se sont déjà prés en-
-4_
tés où des Commissions do la Société r c sont réunie on dehors de Genève pour la convenance de leur President ot do certains do leurs montras » Il semble donc préférable de no pas soulever de question politique à propos de cotte réunion, destinée à faire un travail purement technique de préparation*
Pour le moment, la réunion à Genève d: aucune Conférence générale nTest anrxsagéo dans un avenir prochain* Peut-etre les difficultés actuelles entre le Gouvernement suisse et les Soviets seront-elles résolues, quand uno Conférence Internationale sera convoqué e e
Lia HAAS faix savoir qu'un dos doux exports en matière do transit qui doivent participer à la solution du problème soulevé parla question du matériel de guerre en dépôt à, Dantzig est déjà désigné* Il espère avoir lraccopiution officielle du deuxième expert d'ici quelques jours a La Commissien àT Enquête pourrait ainsi commencer ses travaux vers le 2P janvier*
n1 ignore
A ca propos, le Professeur AïTOLICO fait remarquer qu'il pas que, selon l'opinion générale du Secrétariat, -il eût
été préférable do voir choisir les deux autres experts qui doivent faire partie do cotte Commission( et qui ont âté désignés par le Présidant de la CAPoC. ) parmi les nationaux d'Etats n'ayant aucun
intérêt
La question.
! t t <
désignation
eut été plus oonformo
à la politique générale de la Société des Nations*
Au sujet de la Commission qui doit s'occuper do l'affaire de Kernel, K» HAFÏOUX signale que I.ir « 2?Oman Davis on a définitivement accepté la présidence * Il est parti do New-York le 16 janvier, et la Commission pourra vraisemblablement commeneor sas travaux vers
la fin du mois.

LSA GUE OF 1< ' TIOITS.
Directors' Meeting, 103.
DIRaiCIOhS 1 x'li'; G.
Wednesday, January 23rd, 19£4.
The Secretary-General Prci ass or ; ttolvco Dr o Wit cle Mo Rrpprrd Dr ,Pi8 johmsn Dr. f.tencek M, Mrdrrirg-“
MoColb'. n Mo Hr as
Sir Herbert .'jugs M.Msntoux Mr.Swoptser Li. Bonnot M. Nisot.
Mr „ wilson ( Socrot•'ry ).
The SECRET''!.Y-GEIIET..' L said thr t he understood the Jurists1 Committee to he making admirable progress« So far thoir conclusions hr d been unanimous, ^ra entirely srtiaf-ctcry from the League's point of view.
The SECRET•RY-GEESR'L said Major Johnson h-d recently seen in Ror&e the representative cf the Soviet Government who, acting, of course, on his own responsibility, had suggested thr t the Soviet Government might scon desire to station a representative in Geneva to follow League affairs.
co
2 .
The SECRET'RY-GEKEK:' L thought th- t if the Soviet Government were to inform the Secretariat th°t it haS mrdo rn arrangement with the Swiss Govcrumen t to keep r representative in Genov*--, the Secretariat should be prop*-red to establish liaison with this represent*-tire so for os to give him oil public information about the Le rgue,
Professor *TTC -ICO agreed that the Secretariat should give information, but doubted whether in this matter it should negotiate in my w--y with the Soviet Government. i ny Govoxnmont could keep in Geneva whatever representative it liked.
The SECRET.'EY- GEIT3RT L rgroed, but thought that the Soviet Government might reasonably wish to have private *-ssuranco th-t its representative would be properly treated,
M, I;‘PP'RD weloomed the establishment of the liaison proposed, but thought that the Soviet Government, in view of its studiously insolent attitude to the League, could not expect it as c matter cf course,
In a discussion which followed the point was emphasised that the League could not confer any diplomatic standing on a representative cf the Soviet Government, and that the establishment of liaison between the League and any such representative would pro-suppose the existence of an arrangement between the Swiss Government and the Soviet Government,
The SEC,.ET'EY-GENERAL thought that should the Swiss Government agk the Secretariat whether it would be useful to have a representative of the Soviet Government in Genov-' , the Secretariat should reply in the affirms-tiv	tor rticul■' r ly in view cf the ‘W?iot-nco such s.
liaison officer would be to Dr, ITmsen's organisation.
-3-
M*. RAPPARD thought that the Secretariat should he very guarded, in its reply, as the Swiss Government might de3ire to force the Secretariat into the position of making the request.
Dr'.. RAJCHMAN thought that the Soviet Government would probably point out the advantages of establishing liason, and would ask the Secretariat to obtain the necessary permission from the Swiss Government. This procedure had been adopted by the Soviet Government with regard to the appointment of a member of the Health Committee la3t year,
' M. RAPPARD pointed out that in this case, unlike the former, permission would be required for an indefinite stay.
In fact the presence of a Soviet representative in Geneva would mean that the Swiss Government would have to detail two or three detectives to protect him* The Secretariat should make it quite clear that it had not initiated the invitation,
3,	M. RAPPARD referred to the despatch of the Soviet
Government prbfe33ing its readiness to be represented at the Conference to extend the principles of the Washington Naval Treaty4 should the Conference be held outside Switzerland.
After reading the discussion which had taken place at the last Directors1 Meeting he had thought it wi3e to telephone to the authorities at Berne, who had replied that the Swiss Government naturally was prepared to assume such respon3ibiltty as was proper for the safety of representatives of any foreign power\ in Geneva, but that the Swiss Government was not opposed to
£•-- . *Ji :*
>	"	-	j'i*"
the Conference being held outside Switzerland. The authorities of Berne also agre.ed not to publish the correspondence between it and the Secretariat on the question.
member of in
M„ RAPPARI) raised the question of the presence of a he Information Section at the meeting of tho Jurists’ Committee.
Mr.- S’PIETSIIR pointed out that the member referred to,
M. Popovitch, specially followed legal questions for the Information Section» He attended the meetings of the Committee in order that he might be able to follow subsequent development of the important questions now before the Jurists, Moreover, a communique would have to be issued at the end of the meetings.
M. CCLEAN said that, in any case, a report would be issued by the Committee at the end of its proceedings. this report should be the solo source of information concerning these proceedings, unless interpretations were furnished by members of the Committee itself.
The CTCPHTAHY GENERAL thought that, even in this exceptional case, it was 'vise not to depart from, the established custom, whereby a member of the Information Section kept in touch with some particular aspect of the League’s work.
Professor ATTOTiICQ said when the Committee first mot it was not expected that secrecy would be so profoundly observed« The member of the Information Section had attended in the normal
course of his wo	rk,	and it had not	been thoUf	rht necessary	th	Sit
should v/ithdraw.						
M. RAPPARD	su	gyres ted that the	presence	of a member	of	t-TLS
O Q C 2? 3 "t/cL^T' 1L El ti Oij til 6		Committee might	appear to	the members	of	the
Committee itself	to	absolve them, in	a degree	from, their		
obligations of secrecy.
R

o
DEE SECRETARY- G3HERAL referred to recant articles iri the "Times" cn the Sour. Ee thought that these articles shewed a lias against the League administration, hut hoped that the unfavourable impression which they-' might create would bo removed by a more appreciative letter v.hich Mr0 Fisher had just published on the subject,
MR» GGLBA.E said that he intended to go to Belgrade early next week. On February 5th Mr. Calonder was to be in Geneva to discuss Upper Gilesian questions„	Ee thought it worth pointing
out that the technical solution cf the Upper Silesian questj.cn proposed by the League was working very well., Cnly Minority questions were new presenting any great difficulty, Ee would discuss these with Mr» Calender and ho hoped to arrange for February 10th a meeting with representatives cf the German and Polish Governments,
PP.OFZSSGR LTTGLICO said that things were going so well in Upper Silesia that the tribunals had nothing to do.
L discussion followed cn the point whether in
these c i reruns to nee s a charge should be mu.de, with regard to the high salaries of official the burden of the payment of these salaries,
spec ially
o
O a	-J 1 kj
admittedly
heavy for countries with depreciated currency, compensated by the fact that the disoccupation of tribunals was the best evidence of the
excellence of
til g Convention?
e
TEE SEOFlEL -P Y-GSEEILVu insisted that ony proposal for a change in the position of the officials must originate with one of the Governments themselves,
ME., BAAS said that the Committee on the Sito for a Depot for War material in Dsn'sig would probably meet on
31st January,,
Eo hoped that the acceptance of the tve members nominatei by the President of the Transit Conforenoo for the Mem el Committee ola Enquiry would to received that afternoon, The President of the Committee, Mr. Davis, had arrived in Paris,
M# MAUTOTJX said that ho had written to the Lithuanian representative in Berlin asking him to hold someone in readiness to proceed to Geneva in order to present the Lithuanian point of view to the Committee should the Committee so desire, Ho was approaching Poland in the same senses
ME. SFUSTSSK said he had received a telegram from hr, llenner stating that he (Mr. Floxner), Miss Abbott and Mr,, Erosdiek had agreed on the nomination cf Colonel Snow as the American representative on the Committee of Enquiry into tho conditions cf the traffic in women and children,
DEE SECEETAEY - GEFELAL said that, presumably, the Council would agree that Colonel Snow should have exactly the same status on the Committee as had Loan intended for Mr, Elexner,
7,
MS, SY733ISER said that Kr. Grow had telegraphed to Washington concerning American representation, at the Meeting cf the lea-per ary hired Committee on Armaments» ME. SWEM'SIYR gave information a tout the Bet prise.
He thought that the enquiry instituted "by hostile elements in the American Senate into T'organised propaganda11 connsctod 'with the prize would result in an amount cf publicity very favourable to the objects which the
doner of the prize wished to promote,
Vv4
32
LEA SUE OF
11
I 0 IT 3.
rirec'bors1 Meeting Li3
pr^vr-»
-JTx-.lt
SYi
29th -January, 1924 „
'Jl'i
(1)
(2)
Pago 2, Pp go 3,
s	•r) a o o o	line	: f	cr ^Swis	s Gov	ex	nmen	t,T	re	rd
r.	Soviet	jtOV	era	ment".						
F	ex the	J.c? R	t B	entenco	era th	p	ppgo	p	lib-	
a	t itute	the	f 0	Plowing	sontone		G "			
i?	The s xi	ther	{ +	os cf Bo	rue r	Is	p <n q*	■p p	od	n: t
t	o request		the	Secrets	r is t	to	put	lish		fny
C	or re sp	onde	nee	which re	light	ts	ke p	If	CO	
b	gtween	the	C T-T	iss Qovernmen		+	r-nd	th	G	
*->	eereta	T i P "t)	on	the que	s t i on	TT				
Directors’ Meeting 104«
Genova, February 8th, 1924,
DIR 10 TORS MATING,
.ednesaay, February 6th,
Present;- The Secretary—General Professor Attolico
Dr ,	Hi tobe
Dr.	van Kamel
Dr <,	Raj c hman
	Leon Duf our
T * '•~-p	Gomert
pr	ii'ssor Rappard
uiT	Herbert ,jhq3
Dame Rachel Crowdy	
Mr.	Rost ing
M, Haas Mo Denis M. elavik
Mr, ilson (secretary)«
10	The SECRET;.BY GHHGRAL briefly referred to hi3 recent
visit to London, He said that the Labour Government was determined to make the League the corner stone of its foreign policy, Nevertheless, it would not overburden the League and it was open to conviction when it could be proved that it would not be to the best interests of the League to take action.	The Labour Government was
inspired by no hostility against foreign governments but was very anxious for a sf ttlement with all.
The rumours that the staff at the Foreign Office dealing with League affairs was t o he largely increased were groundless. He bad suggested in London that the best method was that there should be in each of the Government departments one official to follow League affairs on behalf of his department and that the Foreign
¡INFIX® ITT IA L ;£brlbuteT~to ider-Sec rotaries rtjeral and Pi rectors o
2
Office? League staff should cc—ordinate the r nations of tho Government as a whole with the- League. fhia con id host ho done by a committee of the various officials aoioc'rnod ue-firv under tho Presidency of the representative on the Council.
In reply to ur. van Hamel, the Gocro tar y-G- nerai stated that ho did. not hi. self think it likely that the British Government would. adhere to the compulsory jurisdiction clause of the Court statute. It -’as felt thu.t it would be difficult to accent the compulsory jurisdiction of a court which, by its composition, might he presumed to favour the continental system of Prizo Law. The Government seemed inclined to favour the conclusion of open arrangements for arbitration with other countries similar to that contained in’the recent franco— Czechoslovak Treaty.
Ur. 301TIFG said that it had been agreed between the German and ~olish Governments Lh at the negotiations on nationality questions woul d be "'in under the nrsidency of ,1. >ouzn- antas at Geneva on February 12th. Nothing had been fixed with regard to the negotiations, concerning German settlers in Poland.
Professor i.TT’OLICO said that the mooting of the Lav a 1 u bommi s s i on an d lia^al mrp e r t a , to consi o o r a programme for tho extension of the ashin^ton ITa'wil Treaty to non-signatory Btatos, would moot at pome on . ebruary 14th.	..11 the states invited to • ~nd c xnorts had
accented, axe cat Turkey.
5
I£, COHORT explained that this was he cause the Treaty of Lausanne had not boon ratified and that the Turks consequently considered themselves to be technically not yet at peace and so unable to take part in a disarmament Conforonc e,
4.	Dame Rachel CSOLGDY drew attention to a report in
an . raerican paper that Renresentativo Porter "ishod the forth-coming Opium Conference to be held elsewhere than in Geneva, cn the around that S’vitzorland had not ratified tho Opium Convention and that a ^/iss town, Basle, was a "centre of the manufacture of narcotics'k
Professor SAP PASS was afraid that the indiscriminate circulation of such reports might lead wwiss people to believe that the fact that the site- of the league was at Geneva was used as a means of putting pressure on the ¿mas Government, nevertheless a prudent use; of these reports might be made to impress individuals.
Dame Rachel CIO' YDY said that she had h- ard from Li, Bourjois that he had received all the ballot papers for the appointment of the Preparatory Committee on Opium. Y/o should shortly bo informed of the result cf the ballot,
5«	-jir Herbert /.MGS referred to a letter "hich had just
been received from Hr, llitchell concerning a campaign which was already i a nand for raising amongst friends of the League in America a sum of 4C0,000 dollars to be given to tho League, in compensation for the r. auction of tho
t
League budget made by the Fourth „.ssombly, the effect of which, it was alleged, was to cripple tho work of the League, She S -CS.iT.-RY GAELS.'. L said th at Hr. 317001sor had already hoard of th matter from ,.r. short, the secretary of th ITon-^artisan :-.ss ociaticr., and that, after consulting him, Hr. 3woc t so r had replied that such a direct contribution
contribution to the funds of the ^ooguo could not be entertained, though there were other ways, such as contributions to special funds which might be opened under the auspices or the-league, in which the money might be used. To subscribe money in order to make up lor reduction in the budget was by implication to accuse the Governments of having curtailed essential work of the League.
Dr. van HAMEL suggested that, tcough contributions to the budget of the j.eague were inaeeeptable, an administrative organisation might be erected to enable giits, such as that proposed, to be devoted to special international humanitarian tasks. The relief of famine, for instance, was a task for which the aid oi the . eague might be invoked and for which runds such as those offered might properly be employed.
Professor Attclico said that the cuts made by the ourth Assembly were due not only to the desire of economy but to the belief that the league is not called upon to carry out certain kinds of work, reliex work for instance.
The SECRETARY G NIL-...L preferred not to give an opinion upon the special organisation suggested by >x. van ' amel until the attitude of Governments to the scheme of in'o ernational relief proposed by Senator Ciraolo should be known. A reply would be made to Mr. ..atehell similar to that made to Mr. Short.
Professor RAPPAnI) said th^t the Inter-Parliamentary Union had just held a meeting at Geneva when it had dealt with several subjects oi interest to the league. lie nimself had spoken, with all proper reservations as to publicity on Mandates.
The most striking figure in the Conference, in his opinion, had been Hr. .vornberg, former 0: man i’list or for the Colonies, who had shown a strong, trough critic hi, interest in the working of the Lo_ ue. There was reason to believe that the attitude of Germany towards the League had distinctly ihg^OYoil,
Af t r	seme discussion on the	cuestión	of the	rol at	iens of
the league	wi t h n on - off i c i al c rg a	ni sat ions,	such	as the	Int cr-
axliament	ary Guión, the SEORLTA..	y ghh	,i	st atea	•f f ; 4* U -lea Li	in his
view tho correct attitude ior the		league to	adopt	was t	o bo
prepared to give all proper information and help to organisations worhing on its baralf.
M» LEOH-LUFOUR said that an informal meeting of the Hungari 3ub-Committee of the council wquld take place in a few days.
It , as was hoped, the reparation Commission had by then taken a favourable decision, the Protocols could be signed forthwith,
ILL RA.JOffi.ihli said that Dr, Herman dhite had recently addressed in ho scow the Pan-Russian coniorence on malaria, hr. Ilorman ,hite reported that the change for the better in
the attitude of Russia towards the League cl Rations within the last two years was remarkable. he had talked about the league in general for an hour, and received a rousing welcome. ..ussia was grateful for the technical help given by the Health Crganis at i on.
.iJr, RAJCHMAIT said that the Health Committee 'would meet on the 11th. There ould be before it a request from the Albanian Government that the League should appoint a technical Adviser to that Government in health natters.
The SUCR T .AY-GFNFAAL thought that it would be impossible t grant this request unless the adviser were paid bp the A1 b ani an G o vo r ran e nt.
ii\, ii. jgmail
tiie Health
said that a second request bed ore Committee would bo that of the Greek Government lor an expert in malaria to be sent to Greece to enquire into the position there. He thought that the cague might rigntly send a representative in answer to this request.
The 3H0A' TaRY-GEHE.PJj thought that a questt on of principle was involved. If the information to be obtained was of general scientific value, the League could send someone, but if the Greek Government alone v;as to proiit by the work proposed, the Greek Government should pay his travelling and subsistence expenses.
Jr. RAJCIC.Ji.il thought that the Technical Organisations existed
for the purpose of helping overnments in such matters. He quoted as an instance the fact that the British Ministry of Labour had been able to discontinue the publication of certain st tistical and other material as the publications of the International Labour Office supplied the need.
Sir Herbert AMDS thought that the principle should be laid down that the League should bean expenses in such cases during the period of preliminary investigation. As seen as a definite plan was submitted, the country concerned should pay. He quoted the cases of .ustrian and Hungarian reconstruction.
^rofessor ATTO.ICO thought it impossible to lay down a general theory such as that proposed by fir Herbert Ames. Each case should be judged on its merits.
Professor AAPPAAI) thought that it would be fortunate if acceptance of the Greek, request were to le..d, for instance, to a similar request rrom a douth .hneriaan tate, but unfortunate if it mgi o to open the door to general claims on the League lor relief.
IP. RAJCKMAH referre: to the book "The Versailles league of rations", thick, had just appeared. ’ ritten by the head of the League of Hations Section of the German foreign Office, the book showed intimate knowledge of the League. It contained many clever mis-statements, which would do the League harm in Germany, Russia and the U.S.A. He wondered Ihether the Informa tion Section could not take some counter-action against what he considered to be the most dangerous piece cf anti-league propaganda that has yet appeared.
K. OOIERT thought that the book would in Germany defeat it own ends. Its anti-League bias would be recognised. At the same time its readers would learn many facts about the League.
He agreed that the Information Section should take such action as was possible, namely, to publish a few articles, which Professor ATT01I00 suggested should analyse the grosser mis-statements contained in the book.
The meeting then considered the draft Agenda for the 20th session of the Council.
Item 1,	Re/ort of the Committee on Memll;
The SECPC1T AliY-GLH .HAL said that he hoped the Report would be ready in time for submission to the Council at its next session, but, of course, the isa tt ei was not in the hands of the Secretariat.
The Secretary-General referred to a letter from the Conference of Ambassadors relating to the settlement cf the kernel dispute, with the thesis of which he strongly disagreed as it implied limitations to the competence of t.' e Commission in this matter which de thoumt the Council could not admit. The letter would be sent to the Council.
-6-
heport of the Delimitation Commis s’, on of the
Frontier bet	,/e en	Poland and	Czechoslovakia	in the	1Q u X i C t	of
Ja worz ina.						
w r o Q"W •liic k. O	n a '	MP-CM MAL	said that t e ;	deport of	the	
Commission w	OU Id	be sent to	tho Conference	of Ambas	sadors,	
which 'would	then	sen, it to	the Council,	The item	she ul d	be
kept on the-	Agenda, but it 1		ms not certain	wh e the r	th e Hep	or t
could he received in time for the nex
t. fifis!
i on.
11 ern 3
Interpretation of the Covenant
It was understood that the President of the Council would act as rapporteur. The ¿'ecretsry-General expressed the hope
that the 1-ievort of the Jurists Committee would he adopted by the Council, which would then refer it to the Assembly.
Item 7, - Financial Reconstruction of Hungary.
Sir Herbert AMES thought that if the expenses of the
Hungarian Sub-Ccmmittee	were to be pa	id from	the	budget for the
expenses of the Council,	, the ratifica	tion of	the	Council vcuLd
be necessary. The view	:as expressed	that th	is	ratificat ion
was implied in the adoption by the Council of the Sub-Committee's
proposals.
Item 10. - Report of the Econoxvia Committee;
Dr. Yill HAMEL thought that for political reasons it was to be hoped that the Economic Committee would give as much satisfaction as possible to E. Zumeta's proposals ccncerning c om jiercia 1 frauds .
Item 11, - Economic Committee - Proposals re Article 22 of the Customs Convention:
It was decided that this item should provisionally be made
a sub-item of item 10
-9-
Item 15. slavery -	Advisory	Pod y	to	examine	Question:
Professor HAP	PxKD said	+ > -f- Ul- Clr t	a t	the last	session the Council
had discussed whet	her an ad	hoc -	ody	should	be set up for this
puTpose. The oeeretary-General had promised to submit a ir.en.or an-dam on the subject
The SnCHSi'AitY-GEL.LSAL thought that the memorandum could be prepared a little later. It would rob ably have to be of a very general character.
Item 15.Intellectual Co-operation.
Dr. EIxQBD said that the Conierence of which the convocation was proposed was to improve the Convention of 1886 concerning an encyclopaedia of publications.
It was decided to substitute the word eeting" for "conference."
item 17. Opium.
Dame Hack el CP.OuDl said that she thought it would be advisable to re-appoint the present assessors of the Advisory Cornmi vtee.
11em 18. Communications ; Transit: (d) Appointment of the President of the Danube Commission.
H. HAAS ..aid that it was imperative that the roan appointed
should have first class personal and technical qualifications.
His mandate was for five years.
11em 19. Financial questions: (d) MemoI, expenses of the Commission.
The S_JCl-.li_AHY-GDI:HBaL thought that these expenses should be met from the league budget rather than by the Governments concerned, as the settlement of the kernel Question fell unmistakably within the field ox the league's work for peace.
-10-
Sir Herbert AMES said that a new item would have to be added to the Agenda concerning the audit of accounts relating to certain grants in aid.
13.	Sir Herbert AIviES .shed Directors always to consider whether the proposals which the; made involved expense and
ii so co confer wi ch him tnat provision mi.hu be made to cover the cost.
14.	Dr. BnJCHMAK enquired what was the latest dare by which proposals for 1925 budget could be received.
Sir Herbert AIDES suggested the 1st April as the final da^e. It was important that the budgets of the technical Organisations be considered by the Advisory Committees at meetings during the next two months.
LEAGUE OE STATIONS.
CONFIDENTIAL.	Directors1 gating No 105.
Distributed to	Geneva, February 14 th 19 24.
Under Secretaries-General and Directors.
directors1 meeting	35
Wednesday. February 15th 1924.
The SECRETARY-GENERAL
DAME RACHEL CROWDY
Dr. VAN HAMEL
M, RAPPARD
Mr. COMERT
Sir HERBERT AMES
M. MANTOUZ
Mo HALECKI
M. ROMSIN
Mr LEON-DUFOUR
Mr. WILSON (Secretary.")
1.	The SECRETARY-GENERAL referred to the negotiations
on nationality questions between representatives of Germany and Poland which had begun at Geneva on the previous day» The intrinsic difficulty of the negotiations was increased by the fact that the negotiations on the cognate, and indeed inseparable, question of the optants were to be held elsewhere than at Geneva.
2c	M. RAPPARD, recently returned from Berne, said that the
Swiss Government had decided to urge Parliament to ratify the Opium Convention. The constitutional position was somewhat anomalous. In order to carry out the obligations involved in the ratification of the Convention, the Federal Government had to be authorised by law to adopt certain measures and to ensure that the
2~
cantons should adopt others,, A draft law designed to grant this authority had heen prepared and would he presented to Parliament. This aetion on the part of the government should he recognised as a first step towards ratification.
He thought that any attempt to force a referendum on the subject would unite in a probably fatal opposition the opponents of the league, the drug manufacturing interests and all those suspicious of federal interference.,
3.	Sir HERBERT AMES said that he was issuing a memo-
randum concerning the dates by which estimates might be submitted for the 1925 budget.
4c	In reply to the SECRETARY-GERERAL, Sir HERBERT AMES
said that contributions from States, both for 1923 and 1924, were coming in very satisfacorily» The League had an unprecedented surplus of cash in hand. He hoped that in September it might be possible to clear of:? the existing mortgages on the Secretariat building, The money provisionally set apart in connection with the pensions scheme had heen deposited in a bank at	per cent interest; later
these funds might be invested at a higher interest in government bonds.
5*	Mr. ROMSIE, aided by a map, explained the findings
©f the Committee of Enquiry concerning a depot for polish munitions at Panzig, which had just finished its workQ The Committee had unanimously agreed, with one not very grave reservation on the part of the French member, upon a permanent site for a depot near the entrance of the harbour. To prepare it, it would be necessary to construct a basin to which a rai Iw
-3-
would
line/have tc be extended. It was agreed that this work could be done in one year.
The question of the site which should be used pending the construction of the permanent Site had not been decided unanimously. The majority of the Committee, however, were agreed that the present site should continue to be used for the next year. The French member of the Commission objected to the continuation, even temporarily, of the use of the present site as it had no facilities for storage.
60	M. IE01; EUFOUR said that negotiations for the
Hungarian loan were nearing their end. The Commission on Reparations might be expected to take its decision by about the 19th February. The protocols could be signed immediately afterwards and the delegation start for Budapest at the end of that week.
The only ques tion which remained to be settled '"as that between Italy and Czechoslovakia with regard to certain considerable sums due to the former country.
7c	M. LEOli EUFOUR said that at the forthcoming meeting
of the Committee of Government Experts on double taxation and fiscal evasion fixed for March 24th, the financial administration cf seven European States would be represented. It had been decided after some discussion that the International Chamber of Commerce would be represented unofficially by three or four members. Mr. Grew had been approached with a view to the nomination of a representative of the government of the United States of America,
8
M. EAPPARD said that the persons sent hy the Swiss
government to enquire into the conditions of work of the locally recruited staff of the Secretariat had expressed their appreciation of their reception. They carried hack to Berne an envious admiration of the Pool system which they had vainly tried to introduce in the federal department.
Genfident laic
Mr cat era
Dlstr itmtocL to TJ.SnGfl . and Direc'cors.
32
Lie e ting 105 3r ra te.„
TT? i n iitr* lliL A 17
OF NATI'US.
Genovs, February 22nd, 1924*
ERRATA,
Pago 2c For :
"He thought that any attempt to force a referendum on the subject would
Unite ««aecaccccoccooccoocaa^cceco*
substitute
"Professor Rappard thought that although it is quite probable that the law in question would bo unsatisfactory, the friends of stringent regulation of the Drug Traffic were inclined to accept it realising that a more drastic measure would unite « .... t	„"
Page 4, For :
"the persons sent by the Swiss Government to enquire into the conditions of work"
substitute
"the Federal Swiss Officials whom Professor ittolioo had asked to enquire int o the con dit i on s of wor k" „
LEAGUE OF
NATI0N3.
"IDENTIAL.	Lirectors Meeting No.106.
Listributed to
Under Secretaries-General	Genera,February 22nd 1924=
and Directors.
DIR.ECTOES MEETING.	0 >
O u
Wednesday, February 20th 1924.
PEESENT:	The Secretary-General
Dr. van Hamel Dame Rachel Crowdy LI. Leon-Dufour Sir Herbert Ames M. Halechi Mr, Cummings Mr. Gilchrist Professor Rappard M. Mantoux.
Mr, Wilson (Secretary) 1 2
1)	The SECRET ARY-GENERAL said that the Commission of Enquiry on Mo mol had visited Memel and also Zovno and Warsav/„
In the two capitals they had received assurances which gave reason to hope that a draft Convention acceptable to the Lithuanians and the Poles could be elaborated by the Commission.
He thought that the Powers represented on the Conference of Ambassadors, which ware the other Party in the dispute with Lithuania, would accept a settlement to which both the Lithuanians and the Poles had agreed,
2)	With reference to Mr, Norman Davisr visit, the SECRETARY-GENERAL wished to draw attention to the necessity
of carrying out very scrupulously any work which the Chairman
of one of these independent Commissions such,83 the Memel Commission might request the Secretariat to undertake.
-2-
3)	The SECRETABY-GENSRAl said he had heen visited by the Hungarian Charge d1 Affaires at Berne, who had shown great anxiety with regard to the Hungarian loan« The recent fall in the crown had caused a panic, a continuation of which might make the task of the Government impossible. The Secretary--General had communicated with Sir Arthur Salter and was told that the Reparations Commission would probably give its final decision
on the 21sto If so, he thought that it might he possible to induce France, Great Britain, Italy and Hungary to sign the Protocols at once,and to arrange that thereupon the delegation of the Financial Commission should proceed to Budapest» This might relieve the situation.
4)	The SECRETARY-GSFERA1 said that on the previous
day he had heen interviewed by the representatives of various States accredited to the league in Geneva. The representatives had expressed the hope that the liaison between themselves and the Secretariat should he improved.	They seemed to have in mind
the adoption of the system of liaison with the International labour Office. The Secretary-General did not think this system involved holding a meeting of the representatives every month and giving
a speech on league work altogether applicable, but he had told the representatives that he was prepared to set aside two consecutive afternoons each month in which they might interview him,
The representatives also expressed the desire that the Directors should from time to time tell them something of the work being done in their own particular fields. The Secretary-General hoped that this demand might, so far as possible, be met.
r
5)	Professor RAPP API) drew attention to tlie fact that the draft Agenda for the next meeting of the Council mentioned the Representative of Sweden as Rapporteur on the question of slavery. This was presumably a slip as the only document to he presented to the Council on that subject was a memorandum by the Secretary---General. There was to he no new report by a Member of the Council.
The SECRETARY-GENERAL said that the rapporteur might merely introduce the subject without presenting a new written report„
6)	Mr« GILCHRIST said the exchange of populations between Greece and Turkey was progressing favourably and that by the 1st February 50,000 Moslems had been transferred.
7)	The SECRETARY-GENERAL said that he thought it might he desirable to induce Morgenthau to be present at the next meeting of the Council. The American Government had given other
' Governments to understand that if the Greek Refugee Settlement Commission organised concrete schemas for the relief of refugees, the American Government would contribute to the funds. He thought that M. MorgenthauTs presence at the Council might he valuable should this undertaking he discussed.
8) Mo HALECKI said that th was attracting much attention in American member of its Directing acted as Intermediary between the
3 internationalunivers i ty Office the United States-, Thore was an Board and an American profosser Office and the American Universities
with very satisfactory results.
-4-
9)	M. MANTOUX said he had heard unofficially that the Delimitation Commission had refused to act on the recent decision of the Council in the Javorzina question. As this report was unofficial, nothing c'uld be done unless and until it was confirmed. M. Aroizewski and Mr. Flieder had promised to enquire
in Warsaw and Prague respectively. The Delimitation Commissi n was responsible to the Conference of Ambassadors.
10)	Sir Herbert AMDS hoped that by the following Tuesday each Director would have received xs a detailed statement of expenses for the year 1923.
11)	M. LEOH-DUFOUH referred to the resignation of Mr. Kallay, Finance Minister of Hungary. Mr. Kallay had been poorly supported by his Party and had been made the scapegoat for the delays in putting into operation the Hungarian Scheme. He would be replaced by the present Minister for Commerce.
12)	Dame Rachel CRODDY said that the government of the U,S,A.^aa-nominated Mr. Neville as its representative on the Preparatory •Committee for the Opium Conference.
LEAGUE OP NATIONS,
GONE IDENT IAL
Directors'Meeting 10 7
Pis bributed to
Under Secretaries-General	Geneva, February 28th 1924.
and Directors.
MINUTES OP THE DIRECTORS ‘ MEETING. Wednesday, February 27th 1924,
Present:	The Secretary-General
Dame Rachel Crowdy Mr r,Swee ts er MnHaleoki M.Leon-Duf our Sir Herbert Ames Dr. Norman White Mr, Gilchrist M. Mantoux Professor Eappard Mr, McKinnon Wood M ;Eaas Mo Bonne to
Mr. Wilson (Secretary)
1.) The SECRETARY-GENERAL said that the difficulties with which the Merael Commission was being confronted, though great, were prohahly not insurmountable, Mr. Norman Davis had received the Secretary of the Conference of Ambassadors and had, as a matter of courtesy, explained to him the lines on which the Commission proposed to act.
2„) Mr, GILCHRIST said that the negotiations between the Poles and Germans on the question of nationality were presenting difficulties, but that there was reason to hope that an agreement would he signed before the next meeting of the Council-
He said that negotiations on the question of German colonist.? in Poland would begin at Paris on March 3rd.
3.	) The SECRETARY-GENERAL said that Sir Arthur Salter had
"been invited to make before the Commission of Experts of the Reparation Commission a confidential statement concerning certain aspects of tho experiences of the League in Austria«
4.	) With reference to the large number of Danzig questions on the Agenda of the Council, the SECRETARY-GENERAL thought that it might be wise to reconsider the possibility of the Council appointing an administrative committee to deal with certain of the less politically important questions«
In reply to Professor RAPPARDrs enquiry whether the Council might not save itself work by extending the jurisdiction of tho High Commissioner, Mr. GILCHRIST said that both Poland and Danzig were stubbornly opposed to any extension of the powers of the High Commissioner LeyoncL the limits set by the Trea ty.
5. ) Dr. Norman WHITE said that the meeting of the Health Committee had been most successful. The members of the Committee all seemed pleusod that the permanent organisation was now functioning.
The SECRETARY-GENERAL said that even those members of the Committee who, out of partisanship for the Office International had been inclined to oppose the Health work of the League in the past, had changed their attitude favourably to the leasue,
6.	) M. LE^N-DLTOTJR said that the Economic Committee now in session, was dealing with the question of instituting the technical advisory organisation the establishment of which had been suggested by the Conference on Customs Formalities.
In reply to an enquiry whether the Economic Committee would nominate the proposed technical organisation, Mr«LEON-DUFOUR said that three proposals concerning its possible constitution
-3-
wcre before the Economic Committee, two of which had been submitted by the Economic Section and one by the Legal Section.
The SECRETARY-GENERAL expressed astonishment that a Committee of the League should be presented with different schemes emanating from different sections of the Seore.tariat. Any such scheme should proceed from the Secretariat as a whole, and if the Sections concerned should be unable after consultation to agree, the scheme should he submitted to the Secretary-General„
He insisted strongly that any other procedure was destructive of the unity of authority in the Secretariat and Inconsistent with the principles of sound administration.
ML LEON--PTTEOIIR thought that there had been some misunderstanding. The Committee had before it not three separate and conflicting plans advanced by different Sections of the Secretariat, but a single document outlining three alternative proposals, suggested by the two Sections for the consideration of the Committee.
The SECRETARY-GENERAL said that before commenting further on this question he wished to see the document presented to the Committee and then, if necessary to receive a joint memorandum from the Legal and Economic Sections on the subject,
7.) In reply to Rrofessor RAPPARE, Mr. SHEETSSR said that a décision of the Genevese authorities to rename the Quai du Mont Blanc after the late President Wilson, so far from creating a had impression on any of Mr. WilsonTs political opponents who might visit the Secretariat, would be very welcome to American citizens u
35
LEAGUE 0? STATIONS.
Directors1 Minutes Ft 103*
M I F U T E S of the Directors1 Meeting,
Wednesday, March 19th, 1924.
Present: Sec re t ary--Gene ral Professor Attolico Dame Rachel 0rowdy Mr, Onlban M- Ooinert M„-Du four
Professor Rappard M, Haleki Mr, McKinnon Wood Sir Herbert Ames M, Mantoux LI, Haas
MrWilson (Secretary 1
1, The SECRET.ARY-CiSiiERAL said that in his opinion the session of the Council which had just come to an end was the most successful yet held* The day on which the Council adopted its final solutions on the questions of Memel and Hungary and last - hut possibly most important - when it decided to submit to arbitration all minority questions between Poland and Germany, seemed to him perhaps the most remarkable.
So The SECRETARY-GENERAL was convinced that changes in tho material arrangements mr the Council meetings were necessary.
The present lack of distinction between the Council and the general public detracted somewhat from the dignity of the Councilrs proceedings. He had appointed a committee under Professor Attolico to suggest possible improvements.
Professor RAPPARD pointed out that it might be very hard to make radical changes and at the same time preserve publicity. It would always be rather difficult to debate round a table in the presence of o crowd.
Tiie SECBETARY-GENERAL said that complaints had also teen made of the lack of opportunity which Council members had of conferring privately with their colleagues. He thought, however, that this difficulty would be met if tie Council held only one sitting each day.
So The SECRETARY-GEUERAL said that he had received from lire, IToman Davis a letter expressing in the most appreciative terms the thanks of the kernel Commission for the help which the Secretariat had given.
4.	The S3CHDTA3Y-GENERAL said that he was leaving for England that evening. It was agreed that on his return the Budget would to discussed and it was hoped that the discussion would be completed by the 10th or 11th April.
In reply to Hr. C0LBAI7, the SECRETARY-GE1TERAI said that If a director was unav.^e to be present at the discussion of the Budget he should delegate someone to offer any explanations required on the budget of his Section.
Professor PAP PA HD enquired whether, in view of the insistence of certain members of the Council on the temporary nature of the Slavery Commission, the expenses of this Commission should he cha rged
q o r Th
JlJ v.
done and that a separate item must consequently be included i n the 1985 Bud go t.
5.	Professor ATT01IC0 said that preparations were well advanced for the forthcoming meetings of the Sub-Committee of the Temporary kixei Commission which was to consider the revision of the Treaty of St. Germain, and of the Supervisory
. The 1 tter Committee would deal with pensions
■‘to "Unforeseen Expenses ;
in the 1925 Budget. It was decided that this could not be
Committee
3
and. with the re-classification of local staff,, and it was hoped to submit to it conclusions agreed between the Secretariat and the International labour Office,
Lhe
n-v.ri trø O
;icn on the advantages and disadvantages
cf the recent decision of the Government of Brasil to set up in Geneva an office, the head ox which should have the renk o f Arab a s sa d o in
Professor ATTOTICO said that if the example were to be followed or. any large scale Geneva would become a centre of political intrigue and the atmosphere of the Secretariat would be vitiatedc
The SAGHIIARY-GEEGRAL thought there were excellent reasons for a distant country such as Brazil to maintain in Europe for league m rh a representative of high standing not accredited to the Government of any European State,, Be agreed that it was undesirable that the example should be followed by European
Powers and he thought that steps		SO. OUld	be taken
special reasons	for which it was	proper	that the
of Brazil should	take this step.,		
IT-/» n n.ri} a -jvf r.-.L o w JjJim V y	speaking from f	irst ha	nd knowlei
said tha t t he re	was no danger of	a Braz	ilian A mb.
?i*cl 'hi 3..J-,
to	reside in	Geneva -.	The	resj.lt	01	the decis	
pre	senes in E	urepe of	cn	tra -&L	iba	8Bador	-p ^ j. - ±
	Referrin	.g to wha	t v/a	s p re s urne a		t 0 «J G	tlie
of the Brazilian decision, Professor RAPPARD said that Switzerland would certainly resent the appointment of another permanent llember of the Council, Only with great reluctance had Switzerland acquiesced in the allocation of permanent seats to the great Powers, which seemed to imply a modification of the theory of the equality of States^
-4
7.	Sir Herbert AM3S said that he hoped that directors would
interest themselves in the scheme which was afoot for providing lantern slides and other graphic representations with the object of exhibiting visually, so far as possible, the work of the League.
As soon as the experimental set which was now being prepared was
aed to consider formally the
n p o O.	mulcted a	Co	nn	itt	ee	would	0 0	f.
po	ssioiliti	8 S	of	' th	0	Soil8IiIO .		
	A -P+ Yi-k. O	er	C* Pi' O -J ■	mo	di	scussio	n	on
Se	01*0to-i lb- 0	c 'a fcxi	on	Id	C-C	cept fo	y	th
it	v.ciS G	ed	th	an	th	e comr.il	tt	0 0
to judge both their effect and their appropriateness.
8.	Hr. COlBdlT hoped that in future the reports of Hap port ours
to the Council would be distributed before the session. These reports would not contain controversial matter but only on historical summary of the various questions. Only when a document was under the name of a Rapporteur did Council members attend to it. The ground would then be clear and the Council would not meet in ignorance.
In reply to Professor ATTOLICO, M* C0L3AL! agreed that under this qysten the Rapporteur end not the Secretary General would be the author of the historical summary. The Secretary GeneralTs memoranda would merely transmit documents without comment.
The SECRETARY GENERAL doubted the advantages of the change. At present the Secretary General !s memoranda contained the historica summaries and were distributed three weeks before the session. Even if this information were in future transmitted under the name of the Rapporteur it would still be read for the most pert, as at present, only by officials and secretaries.
.„5-,
Professor ATTCLIOO thought it important that the Secretariat should reserve the right of preparing the historical summaries.
He suggested that eeoh of these memoranda of the Secretary General should have some title or mark to show that it wcs not a mere reprint of other documents and also that it was a- first instalment of information on the question to be completed later by a Rapport eur T s r eport.
Professor HA?PAPD ponit ed out that at present the C .. noil received the really significant document - the Sappertear Ts report on each question only when the discussion began. Yet to distribute these reports several days, beforehand would be difficult as the negotiations on which the solutions of the Rapporteur were based 1: sted right up to t lie moment of discussion.
The ShiPnli-liY OilTgRhl thought that on the whole the most satisfactory procedure to follow in the future would be as follows : the memorandum by the Secretary General c ontaining the historical summary would be distributed three weeks before the Council session The report of the Rapporteur containing onlw definite proposals fo a solution should be distributed 10 days before the session. The
Rapporteur s report would refer to the
ary GeneralTs
memorandum and continue with some such formula as - "I propose the following solution...."
lame R CHEL CRC./PY asked Professor Eappard for information concerning the progress of the opium proposals in the Swiss Parliament.
Professor RAPPPHD replied that a Commission of the Cons oil national had recommended the acceptance of both proposals submitted by the Government. The Conseil national would decide very shortly. Opposition to the measures was growing and a successful issue seemed less certain than formerly. It was expected that if the Conseil Rational adopted the proposals at its coming session the Conseil des flats would discuss and adept them in its June session.
37
LEAGUE OF NATIONS,
Confidential.	Directors1 Minutes No„109,
M I N UTES of the Directors1 Meeting, Wednesday, April 2nd, 1924.
PRESENT :	The Secretary-General.
Professor Attolico.
Dr. Nitobc.
Professor Rappard,
Mr. Gilchrist.
Mr. Haas.
Dr. Rajchman.
Sir Herbert Ames.
Mr. Loveday.
Mr. Sweetser.
Mr. Mantoux.
Dr. Van Hamel.
Me Bonnet.
Mr, Wilson, (Secretary)
1,	The SECRETARY'-GENERAL spoke of his recent visit to London, where he had been impressed by the continued great interest in the League and by the determination of the Government to encourage its development, Measures had been taken for a more suitable administrative treatment of League questions, with the result that, even if the present Government were to fall, a solid advance al ng this line would still have been achieved.
Amongst the questions which raised both most interest and most misunderstanding in British political circles, and especially amongst the members of the House, was that of the Saar. There was no denying that German propaganda was very active on this subject, the heads of the German Nationalist Parties very naturally worldng/With the Plebiscite in view and fearing lest at the moment of the Plebiscite the prosperity of the Saar in ct-m-
2
paris on with the rest of Germany might he such that the inhabitants of the Saar might wish to remain under the guarantee of the League, It was certainly very difficult to counteract this propaganda and to enlighten public opinion on the action of the Council and of the League in general in the Saar.
2.	With regard to the draft budget distributed by Sir Herbert Ames , the SECRETARY-GENEE/L said that he intended to have a preliminary discussion with the Directors on the afternoons of Thursday and Friday ("3rd and 4th April"),
3.	Professor RAPPARD spoke of the meeting cn the League of Nations at Bâle, where M, Georges Scelle, Professor Schtlcking and he himself had spoken. M. Georges Scelle had given an excellent account of the technical work of the League and Professor Schtlcking had also spoken of the League very favourably, while mentioning certain reforms which he thought desirable, The meeting had been held in the Cathedral at Bâle, which was packed. This was all the more interesting as Bêle had been one of the cantons which voted against the entry of Switzerland into the league »
4.	Mr, Gilchrist said that the Governing Commission of
tho Saar had just appointed to replace M* Eossman as the President of the Landesrat M. Scheuer, a member of the Centre Party, which was the chief party of the territory and that with the largest number of representatives in the Landesrat. It should be noted that whereas M, Kcssmann when appointed by the Governing Commission as President of the landesrat was one of the officials of the Government, M. Scheuer was one of the elected representatives of the people on the Landesrat, M, Scheuer had, moreover, been
nominated by his colleagues as T’irst Assessor or Senior Member of the Bureau of the Landesrat. The Governing Commission had, therefore, in making this appointment, taken an important step forward towards good relations between itself and the people.
5« hr, Van HAMEL said that, in the course of his visit to Holland, he had noticed the same suspicions and misunderstandings on the subject of the Saar as had the Secretary-General in London,, He thought that impartial and properly conducted publicity would do much go solve the problem. He suggested, without wishing to put forward a definite plan, that the Governing Commission might nave a press service, possibly connected with the Information Section of the Secretariat.
The SECRETAEY-G2IEEA1 and Mr, GILCHRIST both welcomed the suggestion of I>r, Van Hamel and said that the proposal had already been contemplated and might be discussed privately with
tnc
members of the Governing Commission. The Secretary-General
added that he thought the facts in connexion with K„ ScheuerTs appointment should receive as wide publicity as possible„
6. The SECRETARY-GE FERAI referred to the success of the appeal for help for Albania* Directors were aware that the Council had voted £2000 from "Unforeseen Expenses"* Mr. Fosdick had cabled a contribution of £2000 from private sources in America, and news had just come that the Italian Government was giving £5000* The British Government had virtually promised £5000 cn condition chat adequate sums might be forthcoming from other quarters. As this condition had now been fulfilled, he presumed that the British Government13 contribution would now be paid. The Italian Red Cress
had also promised gifts in kind
T f
seemed then that the. estimated
4
total (£15000) required when the Council had taken had been practically obtained within three weeks.
i+s vote
7. Mr. GILCHRIST had recently received a visit from the Turkish Charge d'affaires at Borne, He had been struck by the great change for the better which had taken place during the last six months in connection with the Turkish attitude towards the League. The Charge d’affaires had also informed the SECRZT/BY-GEITERAL that Turkey certainly intended to enter the he ague.
8c Mr. HATS said that there would be a meeting in May of the special Committee cn the Reform cf the Calendar. The action taken by the League in this question was good propaganda, as it aroused interest in the most varied circles.
9.	The SECR2TA RY-GENERAL re feme1 to the bearing of the recent regulations adopted in the United States of America for the Railway transport of goods shipped as U.S. vessels and their bearing on the Ports Convention»
Mr, SUEETSER said that it was much to be hoped that some of the larger States which had signed chat Convention would scon ratify it, as this step would remove a source of considerable trouble.
10» In reply to II. HAAS , Professor ATTOLICO said that he tod no exact information concern in? the probable res nits of the Conference cn Emigration to be held shortly in Rome. Ee asked that all sections might communicate to him information concerning any work on the subject of emigration done by the League either directly or indirectly with which they were concerned»
I
5
11 o Dr. RAJGHI.îM spoke of his recent ’visit to Jugoslavia.
Ee had keen received with extreme cordiality, and was impressed ty the extraordinary progress in public health matters which had been made in the country, due mostly to the energy of ime man -a Croatian, Dr» Skampar. Owing to the difficulty cf reorganising the existing sanitary institutions it had been decided to create new ones. This had been done on a generous scale throughout the country, and the Diet did not grudge votes of money for publie health purposes. The work of public health officers was assisted by an Enlightened public opinion among the peasants. The campaign against malaria had been undertaken with special energy,, The Public Health Authorities showed the greatest desire for cooperation - in the best sense of the word - with the health organisations of the league.
A disadvantage cf conditions in Jugoslavia which should he mentioned was that publie health officers were apt to be changed with the changes in the Government.
12. In reply to Sir Herbert Ames, the S EC HH TAPY - GETS HA L said that arrangements had been made in London whereby on one day in every month a speech might be broadcast on the work of the League of Nations. Ee greatly valued this concession and was particularly anxious that these statements should he made by members of the Secretariat,
After some discussion it was agreed that the moment was not opportune for attempts to be made to broadcast statements on the work of the league in other capitals. An attempt might be made in Paris after the elections, on condition that the 3 "to. "tornsn "ts were made anonymous and under the responsibility of the companies,
6
13r. Professor ATTOLICO thought that the time had come for the Swiss authorities to be approached with a view to improving the connections in the running of trans-Continental trains a
Professor RAPPARl said that the authorities in Berne were a^xipus to do what they could to help,
Mo HAAS referred to the great difficulties of adjusting bine«tables, and thought that the first move should come from the Council and not from the Secretariate
140 Mr, LOVEL-AY said that the Allocation Committee seemed to he coming to the conclusion that it was not possible to accept a single index basis for the allocation of expenses. The Committee would probably ask the Assembly to accept the existing barême for the period of three or tour years, making allowance in special cases :
Professor RAPPARD thought that stability in this matter would not he finally attained before some system of direct taxation had been instituted, say, that a thousandth part of the proceeds of the sale of stamps in each country should he set apart for the le ague o
25. Mr. SWEETSER said that he was leaving for the United States in a fortnight and would he glad if he could he informed before he went of any questions which Pi rectors might wish him to take up over there,
1G„ Dr. Yan HAMEL spoke of his recent \isit to Holland. He said that he had for the first time found public opinion really responsive to the idea of the league,, which was now accepted as 1 an existing institution and no longer as a merely interesting experiment. He wished to see carried into effect the proposal to
7
print in the Dutch language -O^ie pf the pamphlets of the Information Section»
He added that Dutch opinion was uniformly opposed to the special agreements within the framework of the Treaty of Mudual As sis tanc e.
17.	Dr. Yan HAMEL spoke of conditions in Hungary. The
league was very popular the a e, and the interest in the work
was
of th ‘ Domini thee on Intolleo eual Cooperation'specially noticeahle«
It was of supreme importance that careful attention should he paid to minorities questions.
Dr. Van Hamel further referred to the statements in the German Press that the Franc-Czechoslovak Treaty was accompanied by a secret military agreement. These allegations were exploited in Hungary, and so effective was this means of creating had relations between nations that he thought that something might he done beyond the issue of official dementis to expose their falsity.
It was agreed that the Secretariat should make no official move in this matter hut that hints might ho given in Paris and Prague with the object of securing a public statement by the French and Czechoslovak representatives at the next meeting of the Council»
18.	In reply to Professor Attolico M. MAUTOUX said that there was some feeling in Paris against the fact that the Memel Convention had been signed in Geneva. Furthor it was objected that the text signed had contained one or two misprints. He thought however that these technical difficulties would be overcome; either the alterations cf the signed text would be duly initialled or steps would be taken to have a new text signed when it had been ascertained that no difficulties would be raised by the signatory Powers-.
8
19.	Professor F.APPAPD said that the Lower House of the Swiss Parliament had voted “by an overwhelming majority in favour of the ratification of the Opium Convention, He thought that opposition would not now he made in the Upper House, which might he expected to follow with a favourable vote.
20.	Professor ATT01IC0 stated that the Treaty between Italy and Jugoslavia would be presented for registration within the next day or two.
21.	Profesoor RAPPAKD asked whether the Secretariat would take any part in the ceremony which would be held early in the summer for the renaming of the Quad du Mont Blanc as the
Quai Y'ilson,
M. Sr'HETSER agreed with Professor Rappard that a rood impression would bo made on the American journalists present if the Secretariat took some part,
Professor ATTOLICO thought that it would be better for the Secretariat to take no part thourh the Socretarv-Gcnoral and other prominent members might attend as guests invited by the Genevese authorities. It was decided to leave the Question ever for the moment.
22.	Sir Herbert Al.ffiS referred to the continuing propaganda of the Chief Leskakeh. He thought that the reply to the appeal of the Six Nations which had been made by the Canadian Government might be distributed to persons interested in the Question as occasion arose.
LEAGUE OF NATIOHS
o
Directors’ Minutes 110,
LIIITUTES OE DIBEC ICES1 HEETIUG, Wednesday;. April 9th, 1924.
Present
Professor Attolico
Dr* I itobe
Sir Borbort Amos
Mr, McZinnon Wood
Hr. Gilchrist
Ila Enas
M, Conert
Dr. E ornan "hito
II.	id on Duf our
II.	Denis
LI. Man to roc
Mr. Walters
Hr. Wilson (Secretary). 1 2 3
(1)	M. IE Oil DUE OUR said that the session of the Committee on Double Taxation and Eiscal Evasion, which had just come to an end had formulated an agreed text, embodying the main principles, on the subject of double taxation. An explanatory report was also boing prepared, less progress had boon made on the subject of fiscal evasione
(2)	Professor ATTOUCO said that Mr. Smith of Boston, had boon appointed Controllcr-Genoral of the league in Hungary.
(3)	Professor ATTOLICO said that on ^pril 7th the 1'rcaty between Italy and Yugoslavia had been registered at the Secretariat.
Ho wished to take this opportunity of emphasising the necessity of more formality, wherever practicable, in the performance of the important acts of the ■'■‘caguo ox nations, and in
2
particular of the registration of treaties. In this case the
4
registration of a Treaty which marked great- progress in international peace had taken place with no ceremony, though the Ministers of the two Parties had come from Berno for the purpose. He asked Sections to consider how this dcfoct might be remedied and to send their suggestions to tho Legal Section.
(4]	SIR HERBERT ALES referred to the inconvenience caused to the work of his Section by the departure for military training of a member of his staff.
It was agreed, without dicussion of the general principle involved, that the Legal Section and Professor Rappard should do what was possible to help Sir Herbert Ames in this particular case.
(5)	PROFESSOR ATTOLEQO said that the Czechoslovak Government had sent £500 for the relief of the famine in Albania and tho International Committee of the Red Cross 5,000- Swiss francs. A decision concerning tho British contribution was expected at any moment.
He called attention to the success already, within so short a tine, practically assured of the Councilrs appeal«
II. HAN TOUR referred to tho measures being taken to so cure for Albania maize from neighbouring countries and to induce tho Yugoslavian Government to give facilities for transport of maize from Eoumania,
(6)	PROFESSOR ATT OIL GO said that ho wished to consult
Directors concerning the invitation which the Italian Government
had extended to tho Secretariat to take part in tho forthcoming
at Rome <•
Conference on Emigration/ T^o final decision would, of course, remain with tho Secretary—General cut it was important
3
that the ground should bo prepared at once and that the opinion of Directors should be recorded in the Minutes.
The programme of the Conference included questions affecting both the past and future work of the league «
He proposed to ascertain whether, in principle, Directors were in favour of the participation of the Secretariat, and if so, in what measure and along what linos» Would the Transit, Economic, Health and Social Sections, as having a primary technical interest in the subject, please state their views?
Il» HâAS said that transit interests would be represented by important people at the Conference » Of the two questions which required a decision by the Secretariat, namely, the representation of the Socrctary-General and of the President of the Council, and the technical collaboration of Sections of the Secretariat, he naturally wished to speak only on the second »
He favoured this technical collaboration provided that it was limited in scope. To avoid a repetition of the experience of Genoa, ho thought it necessary to take the following precautions:
(1)	To prepare a memorandum showing the work done by the League on the subjects before the Conference » This memorandum, though based on material provided by the various ^actions, should bo written
4
by one person. The experts attending the Conference could then when necessary, give information supplementary to that contained in the memorandum.
(2)	To obtain discreetly from the Italian Government an assurance that the representatives of the Secretariat would have a proper standing and would, for instance, ho able to take part in the work of Commissions. Given a position neither insignificant nor unduly prominent, the delegation of the Secretariat could perform technical work of real value to the Cenforen.ee 0
PROFESSOR ATTOLICO desired,, before asking the opinions of the other Sections, to emphasise the following points v-
(1)	The difference in the invitations extended to the Secretariat for the Genoa and Remo Conferences respeetively0
At the Genoa Conference the Secretariat had been asked to supply merely technical assistance, hut the league of Rations, as such, had, apart from the ccllaheration of the technical sections of the- Secretariat, been invited to he represented at Rome,
(2)	That sc far as he could gather, the representatives of the Secretariat would have full privileges both with regard to representation on Cc remit uses and otherwise,
(3)	The peculiar significance cf the Rome Conference, in
that the Government cf the United States would fully participate therein,	This participation offered certain obvious
advantages but also certain dangers, namely, lost the interests
of the League might suffer,
Id, EE HIS thought that the analogy between Rome and Genoa should net he toe closely drawn. The position of the League was now much stronger than it had been at Genoa. He approved cf the representation cf the Secretariat on condition that the Secretariat delegation should not advance any policy cf its own.
It was agreed that in making preparations in view cf tha
Conference the Secretariat
•ill collaborate as much as possible
5
with tl. e Iykerraticnal labour Office,
HR. ITORMáíI WHITE aaid that many sub jeets cf interest cc the Health Section were to ho discussed at the Conference* He was net clear whether it was the Health Section of the Secretariat or tho Health Organisation of the League which was to he represente! During thu Conference various prominent members of the Health Committee, General Cummings, for instance, would be attending the meeting of the Cancer Sub-Committee at Rome; perhaps those persons might mesfc suitably represent the Health interests cf the league at the Emigration Conference,
PRO.FEDS03 ATTOLICO thought that advantage should "be taken of a coincidence such as tho presence in Home of important members cf a technical committee cf the League-, The Sections should at cuco got into touch with those persons, nevertheless there would be at the Conference no representation of the technical committees as such,, It was the Secretariat which was invited to sor.d
representatives „ Iseful though members of the Crremittees mig.hu bo, only members cf the Secretariat were likely to fulfil ccnsoien-tieus'ly the office cf watch-dogs of the Leaguers interest,,
i.h IEOH L LEO HR said that two questions of interest tc the Economic Section, namely, the question cf the financial treatment cf foreigners and. of the s ottlement of foreigners would apparently bo discussed by the Romo Conference,
In reply to LI* Haas1 enquiry whether point (0) cf the programme did not also aff_et the Economic Section, Professor Attolico pointed cut that in the Conference emigration might be considered as a factor of world reconstruction, Hew it was precisely this reconstruction which was the province of the League of Nations ,	The Economic Section should not
be taken unawares by any development cf the work of the
Confer once* which. ,'br<rugh;b—djrto	nonce- -this particula" cone ep tier»,
of emigration.
Hr. ’TAITEHS said that the Conference would deal with many questions affecting the work of the Social Section. The Advisory Committee on Traffic in "/omen and Children, now in session, had
orrrea
Sub-Comm	r -i— —L _ -i— —l tr L Ô Q 0 0
HEHBEHT	AIL’S sug
Section	should a
fie Confe	renco,
consider these Questions,
view of tie
PBCPE330B ATTCLICO pointed out that tho discussion showed that ail the technical Sections of the Secretariat concerned favoured participation within the limits defined, The other Sections were asked to present observations.
Mo COITEET said that in tho interests of favourable publicity great care should be taken that the documents prepared by the various Sections should be co-ordinated and presented in the form cf a single memorandum by the Secretariat of the League.
PEOHESSOE UAPEAED drew attention to the danger lest the League might bo represented as identified with European emigration interests and as endeavouring through the Lome Conference to put pressure on the United States of America. Sir Herbert Ames also emphasised this point of view.
PE0EE330E aTTOIICO agreed that the greatest caution was necessary„
SIE HEH3EET AHES asked whether the British Dominions had received separate invitations. He thought that the more liberal emigration policy of some of them might be an offset to the policy of the United States of AmericaD
A definite answer to this Question could not be given but it was understood that the views of the Dominions, if not separately invited, would certainly be represented on the British Delegation.,.
K? Ora301 ÀïTOLIOO,
summing up, said that fl) on the subject
^ irp'v*
’ or an dur., which should provide a brie:
■ ;T»-y» -0 -4-fv -4* j. Go '.a. l/j—ct L»	the Sections
info rmat ion su opi led by	
::es to the	general
review of	•'die work
Tj~ n r-;’-rr ^ T’.T doii-cU - i	Haas to
.e Sections	which should
t Sections	, the Economic
Section, the Health Section, the Administrative Commissions Section, the Social Section and the Defugees Section, (s) the question of the official representation of the league of Nations as a whole had still to be considered under its two aspects which were : id) the participation of the Secretary-General, or his representative, and (b) the participation of the President of the Council, at the inauguration of the Conference.
Piorasoi ATTCLICO thought that although the final decision of fa) would rest with the Secretary-General, it was useful for Directors to express their views.
It was unanimously agreed that it was desirable that the Secretary-General should either be present or be represented at the inaugural ceremony of the Conference especially as this
sentat	ion	rp	ar	ke	a	j. i, _ p Ul- O O.	life	1' GI]	ce	bet' >3	en	the Pore	and	Ge:
r en ce S'	•													
It was	al	so	s	u g	JG	sted	that	for		too co	-02	: dination	of	the
of the	va	ri	ou	s	3e	etion	s re	pre	36	nted,	it	might be	use	ful
repros	entât		i V	e	of	the	Seer	eta	r ¿j	-Gener	al	remained	at	the
ronce	tfcr	ou	_ i gn	en	t	its S	essi	on*						
The discussion of fb),namely, whether it was desirable that the President of the Council should attend the inaugural ceremony of the Conference was inconclusive*
-6-
M. COMEPT thought that for the purposes of propaganda the presence of the Seere tar y- General was r.ore important and that the prestigo of the League would he enhanced by the presence of the President of the Council only if he were given his proper place, namely, the first,,
PP0EE330P ^TIOIICO said that this question could not he definitely settled beforehand hut that the Italian Government v/ould certainly receive the President with all proper dignity» SIP HEPSEPT ME3 thought it would have a good effect on opinion in South America if the present President of the Council attended,
M, LIANTOUX said that the question of precedence would certainly arise in a possibly very difficult form.
PP0EE330P ATTOLICO thought that the chief argument against the presence of the President was that the Conference was not a strictly politicals
ID. 77ALTEPS was inclined to disagree. Pas not this Conference as political as most of the League Conferences?
He hardly thought that any objection to the presence of the President could be made on that ground.
PP0EE330P PAPPALL)	aske 1 whether the President of the
Council might not ask M. Salandra to represent him at the inauguration ceremony.
league nr haticds.
Directors’ Minutes III,
I.IIUUTES CF DIRECTORS’ MEET I PS. J:.IL lfiTH 1924 .
Present; The Secretary-General 2. Avenol II. Leon Dufour M. Madariaga Hr. Colban LI. van Hamel M. Friis M. Bielor Mr. Sweet sex*
M. Mantoux
u.	Haas Dr. Rajohman Mt Oproscu
Mr. Wilson (Secretary).
I.	TIIE SECRETARY GENERAL outlined the action taken with, regard to tho invitation to the Emigration Conference at Rome. In the first place, ho had replied to M. Mussolini that he gladly accepted tho invitation to s->nd representatives from the sections of the Secretariat concerned to attend the Conference in a consultative oapacity. He had not mentioned those sections specifically but they would certainly include the Transit, the Hoalth and the Social Sections, It did not appoar to him necessary that members of the Administrative Commissions Section and tho Eccnomio Section should be sent but those Sections should, with the others, prepare material to be submittod to II. Haas for his memorandum. He was not oertain yet as to whether Dr. Hansen’s organisation should be represented or only submit information.
He had reluctantly deolined the invitation to himself to attend the inaugural aeromony as ho was leaving in the midi^o
/ of May to visit some of 1ho
northern capitals. He had,however,suggested to M. Mussolini that Professor Attolico should he sent in his place,
He had transmitted to M. Guam! the invitation for hir to attend the inaugural ceremony as President of the Council, and had privately urged acceptance,
The point was raised whether it was advisable that the Secretary-General's representative should he a national of the country in which the Conference was being held,
Mr AVENOD said that the invitation to the Secretary-General was not intended to imply a solemn representation of the league as a whole at the Conference, In eo far as such a representation was demanded,it would he fulfilled by the presence of the President of the Council at the inaugural ceremony. He thought that the Secretary-General’s solution, especially in view of Professor Attolico’s expert knowledge of the emigration problem, \jaa wise „
Ma HAULS hoped that it would be made clear that at the Conference the members of the Secretariat should not defend any particular policy, not even the policy of their respective Advisory Commissions, Per instance, the recent session of the Advisory Committee on Traffic in Women and Children had adopted certain resolutions containing a policy which they wished the Conference to accept. He understood that the Members of the Secretariat present would be able to give an# relevant information concerning those resolutions and to explain how they came to be adopted, but not to strive to secure their adoption by the Conference.
The Secretary-General agreed.
The SECHETARY-GEHEHAI wished to bring to the notice of Directors a suggestion made by Mr. Johnson that the services of Mr. Gorvm,
Dr. Hansen's reprosontative in Moscow, might on occasion be used by Directors if required,
The Secretary-General, while not objecting in principle to such action by Directors should occasion require,expressed the wish that in view of the groat delicacy of the relations of the League of Nations with. Hussia, he might bo consulted in any specific case.
-3-
There was some discussion on the properties of using the services of a league Commissioner for work outside his proper function.
Mr. OOLBAN insisted on the dangers ox suoh use,especially the danger lest a Ecmr.issioner of the league, "being employed for various work, outside his own sphere might commonly he supposed to represent tho league of Nations in general and not only for the purposes of his special mandate.
The SECRETARY-GENERAL agree l that those dangers were considerable and explained that it was for this reason that he was especially anxious to he consulted as each case arose.
The meeting considered the draft Agenda for the fifth Assembly (Special Circular 11,1924).
Item 12 „ The S3CRETARY-G' HERAT said that Professor Rappard, in order not to raise false hopes concerning the work of the Committee on Slavery at this early stage has suggested that the item should read "Slavery: Resolution of the Fourth Assembly," The Secretary-General .however^, thought that a more suitable but equally safe title would be "Slavery: Report of Experts in accordance with the Resolution of the Fourth Assembly,"
Item 13. The SZCRZTARY-G HERAT said that there should be added under this head as sub iter (c) "Meeting of Experts for the Revision of the International Convention on the Exchange of Publications."
Item 16, II. IRON PUFOUE thought that in view if the very special importance of the reconstruction of Austria and Hungary, this item should read "The work of the Economic and Financial Committee, including the Reconstruction of Austria and the Reconstruction of Hungary,"
I tern 17. II» HAAS said that
-is item should rood "Repc
is ana xTî-'-nsiu, inciïitting
York of the Organisation for Communications and Transit the results ox the Second General Conference held in Geneva, IT ov ember-December, 1923«Tf
I tem 24» DE» VAN HALID 1 pointed out that the Council should at its next session adopt a resolution transmitting to the Assembly the report of the Committee on the Allocation of Expenses»
The SBCIEEIRY-CEIURAE drew attention to the fact that the claim of China for a diminution of her share in expenses should be circulât, ed four months before the Assembly and asked that the Chinese Government which had already made an informal request, should be reminded ox this rule.
I tom 26 n This item was deleted»
I tom 2 7 o It was decided that this item (now Ho »26 ) should have as a classification heading "Other Items".
The SECH3TÀBY-ŒBIT3RAL reminded some Sections that they had net submitted items for the Agenda, and said that these items, together with any necessary changes in other items, should bo sont to him by mid-day April 22nd.
Hr. S'./SSTSLR thought that the presentation of the Agenda as at present drawn up was insufficiently clear.
HR. COLBAN suggested that the indications given in the headings which now appeared in the text of the Agenda might be given as footnotes, ant. suggested that at the tine c-f the issue of the Agenda the Information Section should name a statement drawing particular attention to those items especially that of the general report on which important discussions might be expected to "rise.
On DR« VUS HALEB 17 S suggestion, it was decided that the texts of the resolutions of the Assembly or Council referred to in the agenda should bo reproduced in an annex to the Agenda»
The SECHEIEUY--GENERAL said that Professor Rappard wished to see the report of the Handatos Commission appear as a opecial item on the Assembly Agenda. At present this report was referred to merely in the Report on the work of the Council » The Report of the ¡hndates
5
Commission had always hitherto been inserted in the Agenda of the Assembly on the instructions of the Assembly itself.
M. S’Elis, on behalf of Professor Kappard, said that the inclusion of the heport of the Mandates Commission«; merely in the report of the Council appeared to minimise the importance of the work oi that Commission as compared with other Commissions•
The SUCKSIÆ.Y—diLliKAIi saw the convenience of Professor Rsuoard^s proposal but thought it might bo dangerous, as the Council might be jealous of its prerogative and some Mandatory Powers might complain.
Dr. VAT HAMEL thought that the Permanent Advisory Committee on Military, Havel and Air Questions and the Mandates Comrnissioh should be classed apart from the other Commissions in that they were quite strictly Advisory bodies to the Council whereas the other Committees gave advice also to the Assembly.
M. AVEîïOL agreed. Hie Council controlled only fron the political point of view the activities of the Commissions of the technical organisations but the Permanent Advisory Committee and the Mandates Commission, which dealt with political questions, were "l1expression meme du Conseil."
The SECHE EAR Y-GEImIRAL agreed and pointed out that the&e «¿wo Commis ions had been instituted in accordance with express provisions of the Covenant, whereas the Commissions of Che technical organisations had been constituted on the recommendation of the Assembly« Ho admitted, on the other hand, that the' Council had agreed to circulate to the Members of the League, before its own approval had been given, the report of the Mandates Commission.
DR. EAJCHMAK asked whore in this classification of Committees camo the Advisory committees on Craxric m Opium and xr-j-iic
in ’./omen and Children.
-6-
The SUOHLT AEY-GBiriR AT thought that although these Committees had a certain resemblance in function with the Mandates Commission and the Permanent Advisory Committee in that they were advisory to the Council they approximated more nearly to the Committees of the technical organisations, and especially as they had been set up not in execution if the terms of the Covenant but in accordance with resolutions of the As s emb ly,»
The SGCHL TAH Y- GYLLHAL said that the Persian Government had submitted to him certain correspondence between itself and the British
<»
Government concerning the recognition of the Soviet Government,with the request that this correspondence should bo circulated to the Members of the league. This move appeared interesting as there seemed no evidence that the British Government had been previously consulted.Nevertheless, in view of the formal request of the Persian Government,he could not do otherwise than authorise its circulation!
Mr*COLBAN doubted whether the Secretary-General was bound to circulate this correspondence unless it concerned the work of the League in some way.
M, AVYNOI suggested that the Persian Government might be asked whether it had first consulted the British Government,
The SECHHTAHY-GHNYHAI thought that formally he was bound to circulate on the express request if the Government or a Member of the League. To do otherwiso would be seriously to harrow the competence of the League and to deprive Members of what might in certain cases be a highly valued right, Moreover some practical justification for circulation might be in that fact that the documents concerned Treaties. With regard to the question whether the Persian Government ought to be asked whether it had consulted the British Government,he felt that in his official capacity,he was bound to assum.e that the ordinary diplomatic courtesies had been observed.
There was further discussion on the general principle involved in this question and especially on the point whether such circulation should be made only on the instance of a League organisation -
~ V _
133011.1315." Counoil or Commissien,	Some uneasiness was expressed
lost If do oxime nt e were circulated automat ioally on the request if a Government, the League might be use! as a means of embittering international relations0
Finally, without any decision being talen on the principio, it was agreed that in this particular caso the documents should be tdroulated.
7 *
3.
Mr
fox~ the from the MS
accounts
o SWEET SEE mentioned that subscriptions af 10,000 dollars 1924 publication of the Treaty Series hah been received hoc Ice feller Found at i o n „
o BIBLES said that the Auditor of the League cf Nations , M„ Oorosa, had completed his report, which he understood
was a very satisfactory one*
He thought it right to mention that U, Albert Thomas intended
to raise at the next mooting of the
Supervisory Commission the
question of annual increments„
9 .	lle HAAS said that Germany had adhered to the Barcelona
Transit Convention with the condition that its adherence should date from the ratification of the Convention by the principal Allied lowers.
10 o	MB„ SWEET SET. enquired whether any progress had been made
with the ratification cf the Ports Convention*
Mo HAAS said that the time for signature had not yet elapsed and all efforts were now being directed towards obtaining a largo number of signatures. The question of ratification had nfor practical purposes not yet arisen.
11.	DR0 BAJCHMAI; said that the ninth Conference of Interchange of medical officers had just come to an end„ It had recommended the constitution of an international association of Medical 'officers of Health, and he thought that this object, if realised, would be a useful means of international contact and correspondence .
12.	MR. CCLBAIJ said that the situation of the League as regards the Saar was bettor in his opinion than ever before-.
With regard to Danzig, in accordance with the decision of the previous Directors1 Meeting, he had communicated to the Rapporteur - the draft reports for the next session of the Counoil. These would he hoped go to the Governments at the end of May.
(	On nationality questions, Poland and Germany had accepted the
arbitration proposed. Certain formalities still remained to he fulfilled hut he hoped that the substantive negotiations would scon begin.
The Committee on the question of German colonists in Poland had met in Paris for a week but had decided that it would not reach any final agreement before a visit of experts had been made to Poland.
The Po'lish Member of the Committee and also the Polish Minister at Paris had supported this view and urged the Polish Government to aguee,
He wished to emphasise the impression which he had gained both at Sofia and Belgrade on his recent visit that both countries sincerely wished peace.
The chief now question which had arisen in connection with the work of his section was the petition which had been sent in by a Ukrainian organisation complaining of the position of Ukrainians in Poland.
13.	PS. HAJCHMA15 said that chiefly as a result cf the Memfil docision there was an acute political crisis in Poland and that the? Foreign Minister would probably be forced to resign.
14.	M„ DP KITIPIIG-L described the work of the First Commission of the the Temporary Mixed Commission which had just come to an end in Paris. Mr. Grow had there represented the United States of .America, Ho had maintained a reserved attitude although he had been willing to give information where necessary. The Committee had drawn up a draft convention to replace the Convention of St. Germain, and, as
i
solutions to the three principal difficulties which had arisen, had proposed respectively, first, the right cf States to export munitions to other Statos recognised, as such by the exporting State, secondly, the right of conditional and partial adhesion, thirdly, with regard
J9
to liaison with the League of Hâtions, the appointment by the Council of a special organisât ior*
It was noticeable that the Committee was becoming conservative to a point which was almost dangerous* The now draft Convention was , ho thought, better than the Convention of St. Germain, but fell short of the expectations of many
Jn tho subject of the control of privato manufacture, a proposal had been considered, but remitted to a meeting to be held at Prague on April £6th, which would present a text for the next plenary session of the Commission. The date of the plenary session had not yet boon definitely fixed.
With regard to the collection of statistics 3 it had teen decided to publish monographs on tho position in the various countries and before publication to submit each monograph to some interested person in the country concerned.
In reply to the Sec rotary-General, II* HE ISiLAltlAGA said that the Council would not be called upon at its next session to decide on the question of the appointment c-f a special organisation which would only come up when the new Convention to replace the St. Germain Convention was considered at a Conference called for the
purpos e o
11)	M, LEON LLTOUA said that tho Greek Committee of the
Council had been convoked and that negotiations, though very difficult, wore still proceeding for tho issue of another loan by the Bank ex England.
Li,, AY3N0L thought that in view cf tho results of tho plebiscite there was justification for optimism concerning the results of those negotiations.
34
CONFIDENTIAL.
LEAGUE OF NATIONS.
Directors' Minutes Bo.112
Listributed to Under-Secretaries-General and Directors.
MINUTES OF DIRECTORS' MEETING WELBESLAY, APRIL 23RD , 1924.
Present:	The Secretary-General
M. Avenol Dr. Nitobe Dame Rachel Crowdy Mr. Coltan M. Mantoux Dr. van Hamel M. Lion Dufour Mr. Cummings M. Friis
Mr. Wilson (Secretary).
1.	The SECRET TRY-GENERAL said that the agenda for the fifth Assembly v;as being sent to the Acting President of the Council for his approval that day. As a result of the various improvements in presentation suggested at the last Directors’ Meeting, this agenda was, in his opinion, a more impressive document than the agenda of former Assemblies.
2.	The SECRETARY-GENERAL said that the Acting President of the Council had accepted the invitation of M. Mussolini to attend the inauguration of the Rome Conference.
3.	The SECRETARY-GENERAL said that Dr. Nedorbragt had raised the question of the continuation of the publication of the Weekly Summary and of the Daily Synopsis
It was agreed by the Directors present that the continuation of the publication of these documents was essential as only through them could Sections know what other Sections were doing.
-2-
The SECRETARY-GENERAL said that a request had been made for the postponement of the meeting of the Supervisory Committee to May 16th. The Secretary-General had replied urging strongly the maintenance of the date fixed three months previously, namely May 7th.
There was a discussion on the desirability of continuing the issue of the list of Articles in Reviews prepared by the library.
M. MANTOUX thought that if it was worth while buying these Reviews for the Library, it was worth while publishing a document drawing the attention of members of the Secretariat to them.
Mr. COLBAJS explained that although his Section had taken the same line as M. Mantoux, he himself v/as sceptical as to the practical value of the publication, and also thought that its general distribution induced members of Section to inquire too widely into questions beyond their own province.
The meeting concluded that the distribution of the document served a useful purpose, but that the document in its present form included too much. It should in future contain short references only to Articles of real interest to the work of the League. It could, moreover, be more carefully classified, and it was suggested that the headings according to the Sections of the Secretariat should be used, i.e. Political, Minorities and Administrative, Financial, Transit, Social. Mandates, Legal. In cases of doubt, the Library should include rather than exclude a reference to an Article.
-3-
It was decided to bring these considerations to the attention of the Librarian.
The meeting was, moreover, of opinion that if the scheme of classification suggested were adopted, members of the Secretariat would be more likely to confine their attention to the Articles of interest to their work.
6.	M. L330B DLFOUR said that the Hungarian laws for putting into of feet the reconstruction scheme had been ratified.
7.	Lame RiCHSL CROWDY said that she had received a visit from M. Martin of the International Labour Office concerning the situation of the League vis-a-vis the International Association for the Protection of Child Welfare of Brussels, According to M. Martin, the International Labour Office had received a letter from Brussels to the effect that although the International Office had been taken over by the League, the International Association still remained. Dame Rachel Crowdy had replied that there was no need for the League to adopt a definite attitude on this question, at any rate before the meeting of the Association in July.
The Secretary-General agreed, and pointed out that it was important that nothing should be done to commit the League until the Assembly had finally approved the taking over of the International Office.
39
LEAGUE HP NATIQN3,
Directorg Meeting No. 113. Geneva, April 30th, 1924.
MINUTES Off DIRECTORS IfeETING.
Present: The Socretary-General
M. Avenql Sir Herbert Ames Dame Rachel Crow&y Mr. Gilchrist Professor Rappard Mr. Abraham Mo Gomert Dr. van Hamel M. Le on Duf our.
Mr. Wilson, Secretary.
which had been circulated drawing attention to the harm done to the publicity of the League‘s proceedings by the growing praotice of holding the meetirgs of Committees away from Geneva, He asked that Secretaries of Committees which proposed to hold meetings away from Geneva should explain that the Assembly had formally recorded its wish that they should be held in Geneva, that the dispersion of the work of tho League discouraged Press Agencies from keeping correspondents in Geneva and so diminished publicity, and that expenses were thereby increased.
In the discussion whioh followed, Directors were unanimous
in expressing the belief that meetings of Committees shou
be hold in Geneva whenever possible. Some Directors considered
L
that the rule should be made hard and fast on the ground that
Committees pressed by their Secretaries to meet in Geneva, always referred to tho decision of other Committees to me«t
advantages of holding very occasionally the meetings of smaller committees away from Geneva forbade the quite rigid application
The SECRETARY GENERAL said that a statement would be drawn
I.
The SECRETARY GENERAL referred to a memorandum by M, Comert
away from Geneva. It was however roaognised that the practical
of thG Assembly^ resolution.
V
-2-
up calling attention to the wish expressed "by the Assembly and to the great disadvantages which attended its neglect. This statement might be submitted by Secretaries to recalcitrant Committees.
The SECRETARY GENERAL said that the Supervisory Committee ynuld meet on the 7th of May and he hoped that Directors would arrange to be in Geneva from the 7th to - say - the 18th in order to provide the Supervisory Committee with any explanations which it might require The SECRETARY GENERAL spoke of the proposed visit of the Ring and Queen of Roumania to the Secretariat of the League on May 9th6 He had set up a small Committee with Professor Attolico as President and M. Teixidor as Secretary to make the necessary arrangements for their recaption,
The SECRETARY GENERAL said that the agenda for the next session of the Council should be submitted to the Acting president on May 20th. He hoped that Directors would submit to Major Buxton by May 10th the items which should appear on that agenda. Prom a provisional agenda whioh had already been drawn up, he noted that the Council would be chiefly concerned with technical questions. He thought that this would be increasingly so in the future. One by one the league had settled tho smaller political questions5 Memel, Upper Silesia, and others, and it seemed as if the Council would in the future deal principally with political questions submitted to it under Article 11, These would presumably bo of a grave nature and it was to be hoped that they would not arise at every session.
He suggested that journalists might be told that these things wore so, as otherwise they might pretest if the business of tho Council did not seem sufficiently sensational.
Professor RAPPARD hoped that this information would bo conveyed to journalists in such a way so as not to give the impression that in the eyes of tho Secretariat the most important political questions were already settled»
M. AYEDOL remarked that it was not the function of tho League to organise international conflicts and pointed out
I
!
-3-
that the facts mentioned by the Gecretary-Genoral demonstrated that the work of the League normally consisted in the organisation of international relations rather than in the exercise- of judicial authority, M. AVEMOl said that the Greek Committee would moot in London on May 7th. In accordance with the resolution of the Council it would enquire-, in the light of the political situation in Greece, whether tho financial needs of the Autonomous Office could bo satisfied, or whether the work of the Office should be discontinued. -There was room for optimism, but the results were still uncertain.
The SEOULTARY-GEN ~IR A1 referred to a letter received from Dr.
Hudson asking his advice concerning a legacy left by an American lady to the league for useful work.
This letter raised both tho question of principle whether the league could accept legacies and the practical question whether such legacies, being accepted, should be spent as a lump sum, or whether they should be invested and the interest therefrom devoted to the work of the league,
He was convinced that the Council could accept legacies, but invited suggestions on the second points
Professor HAPPARD thought that a distinction should be made bw+1een the welfare work and the ordinary political wofk of tho league and that the Assembly might bo induced to adopt a resolution whereby the Council would be empowered to fund monies obtained by bequest and to devote them at its discretion to specific needs connected with the humanitarian work of the League.
Dr. van HAMEL wished to add to the two categories of work mentioned by Professor Happard a third-the most important of all when motives for the bequest of money were being considered- the"missionary” work of the league,
SIS HERBERT .423S emphasised, amidst general agreement, the danger of releasing Members of the league from their obligations for the payment of the current expenses of the league. Nevertheless he agreed with tho suggestion that bequests might be placed in a fund from which the C oncil oould draw for specific needs. Though it seemed that the
present legacy was moderate in amount, the decision made with regard to it was of great importance as it would establish a precedent.
M. AVENOL also thought that the importance of the decision on the present bequest as a precedent should be fully realised. It should not be forgotten that there was in human nature a powerful stimulus for actions such as that of the lady mentioned in Dr. Hudson's letter,as in leaving money to the league of Nations the undoubtedly sincere motive of generosity was fortified by the prospect of an almost universal admiration.
The SECRETARY GENERAL concluded that although it was necessary to obtain further details before any definite recommendations were made, the best solution seemed to be that the legacy,even if a very mdderato amount, should be funded. Ee would write to Dr. Hudson proposing that the Council should be ashed both to accept the gift and to lay down that this and other similar legacies which it accepted in the future might be constituted a fund, the interest of which could be devoted by the Council to needs other than these met by the regular budget of the League.. The resolution of the Council could then be confirmed by a resolution of the Assembly,
SIR HERBERT AMDS raised the question of the Assembly Hall.
If it was agreed that the nee:t Assembly should be asked to approve the immediate construction of the hall, he thought that steps should be taken to secure the consent of the delegations in advance.
It was agreed that the moment was opportune for such a decision by the Assembly, It was pointed out that the Secretary-General was preparing for the Supervisory Committee a memorandum to that effects
in reply to Dr. Ranchman, it was further agreed that a suggestion might be made that 11 embers of the League should contribute from, their
national products to the decoration of the hall
-5-
SIR HHRBLRT AHH3 said that he had consulted Directors concerning the preparation of lantern slides illustrative of the work of the league. About 200 slides were now prepared and he hoped that a small committee might ho formed to inspect them din a definite date, say the 15th of Hay. The Secretary-General consented.
SIR HDR3URT AMDS suggested that in view of the periodical summer influx of visitors some system, should be introduced whereby the work of the Secretariat should suffer as little as possible therefrom.
Dr. RAJOHMAN agreed and thought it very necessary that members of the Secretariat before lecturing or in other ways spending their tir e on explaining the work of the League to these visi tors, should discriminate between those who would profit from, such instruction and those who would not.
Me RAPPARD pointed out that visitors from the United States of America were chiefly concerned and referred to the intention of the Non-Partisan Organisation to send a representative to Geneva this summer to take charge of visitors and to explain to them the work of the League.
The sriCRLTARY GHNLRAI said that Hr. Sweetser was taking up this question in the United States and that all that could be done at present was to appoint a small committee to consider the main question. He suggested that this Committee should comprise, with Professor Attolico as President, H. Comert, Professor* Rappard, Hr. Huston and Mr. Gilchrist. Dr. Ranchman should also be invited to give his views to the Committee.
Mr. ABRAHAM said that Professor Pittard had presented a report on the relief work-dons in Albania in execution oi the Council's decision. The amounts received or promised sufficed to meet the immediate needs of 50, 360 or 60,000 persons, but a sum of
75,000	Swiss francs would still be required to meet the urgent needs of another 10,000.
/
-6-
11)	Mr* GILCHRIST said that a letter had "been received from II. Rault, stating that the Governing Commission, in view of the improved financial situation, had decided to increase the local gendarmerie "by 200 in addition to the 200, the appointment of which had "been promised at the -larch meeting of the Council. The Governing Commission had moreover decided on certain modifications of the Picketing Decree.
The SECPIETARY-GHNERAI thought that the information given in II. Rault!s letter was highly satisfactory and considered that tho Governing Commission should have a Press agent in the Saar in order that full recognition of tfcoir worlc might be obtained.
12)	DAIS RACHEL CROYDY said that the third session of the Committee
of Preparation for the Opium Conferences had adjourned and that the nest session would meet on the 9th of June. Three schemes, British, American, and Dutch, had been before the Committee but as there was also a French scheme to come, no decision had been taken. At the next session the Committee would consider all four schemes.
(13) M. IPOIT DIP?OUR said that on the 5th of May there would meet a Conference of Experts on Unfair Competition. Experts from 22 countries - practically all countries invited- would attend.
The session of the Economic Committee beginning on May 8th would, examine the results of the Conference of Experts and submit resolutions to the Council.
ÊLI 1
league oí' nations,
Directors' looting 114,
Geneva,
Hay 7th,19£4.
MI HUT ES_Oí__IRE___DIRECTORS' tliüË TI NG
May ¿th. 1924.
PRESENT:
The Secretary-General, Professor Attolioo,
Sir Herbert Ames,
Dr. Van Hamel,
Li. Colban,
LI. Eappard,
Mr. Madariaga,
M. Leon Dufoux,
Li •	- io mo i j
LI. Cummings,
Mr. Abraham,
Mr. Opresou,
Mr. Bonnet,
Hr. Tvilson, Secretary.
The SECRETARY-GENERAL said that the committee appointed to male arrangements for the visit of the Xing and fueen of Roumania had drawn up instructions which would he circulated on May 7th. He asked Directors to impress on their sections the necessity of strict observance of these instructions.
2. '	The SECRETARY-GENERAL said that the Supervisory Commission
would meet on May 7th. He ho pe ^ that the ses-ion would be finished by Monday or Tuesday.
3„	Mr. MADARIAGA described the recent meeting at Prague of tho
sub-committee of the Temporary Mixed Commission to consider Colonel Carnegie’s draft treaty on the private manufacture of arms. This draft, together with a scheme presented by M. Jouhaux, had been recast in the form of "General Principles for a Convention" which would be examined at the meeting of tho Temporary Mixed Commission in July.
It was presumed that the draft convention on private manufacture which would then be drawn up would be submitted by the Council to the
-2-
eojiferonce to be appointed la tor to deal with the traffic in arms.*
There was further discussion on tho question of the holding of meetings of commissions away from Gonova. THE SBCIMJTaHY GEIUBAL said that a statomont on tho subjoct would be circulated in a day or two and ho hoped that the next Assembly wo^ld pass a strong resolution insisting on meetings of Commissions being held in Geneva. On PhOS’BSSOB aTTOLICO1 S suggestion it was agreed that it might be advisable that after the next Assembly a list of meetings hold away from Gonova should bo mado and tho Chairman askod in every case to give reasons to justify the departure from the Assembly's decision.
UR. OPHISCU doscribod tho meetings at Brussels of tho Univoisity 3ub-Commissi on and the Bibliographical Sub-Commiss ion of tho Committee on lutelloctual Co-operation. The University Sub-Commissi on had agreed that tho Spanish plan for tho foundation of an international university was not for tho moment realisable and that o fforts should Ifchoroforo at present be concentrated on improving relations between various national universities. The Bibliographical Sub-commission had come to an agreement on the subject of the co-ordination of the bibliography in physics ana physical chemistry. It was hoped it would soon be possible to publigh. an Index Bibliographic us.
There had been at Brussels a private discussion of tho cuestión of the booklets on intolloctual life in various countries published by the Commit too on Intolloctual Co-operation. It had beon agreed that with tho exception of one or two booklets prepared, no more would bo published dealing ■ ith intellectual life in individual countries. Moreover, future publications would be examined by tho Directing Board of the Bulletin of the International University Office, by membors of tho .Secretariat who wore nationals of tho countrios concerned, and, if necessary, by the national committees.
* Seo Minutos of Directors' Meeting ox April -Oth, 1924.
1H* ABHAHAI1 said that a copy ol tho revised Menial Convent ion had been sont to Lovno and it was expected that it would be signed by all the parties at tho oud of the wo eh.
DR. VAK HAM3L suggested that it might be v/ise to establish for the guidance of the ¿Secretariat certain rules ■whereby errors such as those that had slipped into the Memel text might be avoided.
Till oECUTiHI GlilfjRiiL agreed , while pointing out that tho material conditions in this particular caso which had causod the occurrence of errors, woro such as tho Secretariat could hardly control.
Mr. CO LEAK said that the Governing Commission of tho Saar had, on its ov/n initiative, increased by 200 the number of local gendarmerie in addition to the 200 promised the last sossion of the Council. It moreovor proposed to substituto for the present picketing decree a now one based on British logis lation*
Satisfaction was expressed at tho nows that tho Canadian member of the Commission was to spoak to tho parliamentary Committee of tho British Leaguo of nations Union.
Mr. COLBmE said that the high Commissioner for Danzig reported that of tho six Danzig questions which had been postponed by the last session of tho Council, four had boon settled. Consequently tho Council would havo before it at its noxt session tho comparatively modest number of five Danzig questions (2 postponed and n new). The improvement was, he thought, largely due to the fact that tho new Polish Representativo in Danzig was a man with a commercial rather than a political outlook.
-4-
11.
M2« COLBnN said that the German Polish negotiations on nationality questions were now taking place in Vienna under the presidency of Mr. Eaeckenbeaek. She negotiations on the question of Gorman colonists wore also proceeding, though with more doubtful prospects of success.
PHOJjSSGOii aTTOLICO referred to the inconvenience causod to foreign officos by tiio doubts which existed with regard to the in "¿or national status of Danzig especially with regard to tho control of Danzig's foreign relations by Poland. Ge thought that the Secretariat, at any rate, should havo its own mind cloar on this question»
Mr. COLBiiD said that tho question had boen sottlod by a series of agreements, Those agroeiaonts, however, accord-od to Danzig have more right3 in theory than it was always practicable to give in particular oases.
Dr. VAN HaMBL suggested that it might be wiso if Poland informed othor Government a concerning tho international status of Danzig.
Tho re was some discussion concerning tho quarter from which such an initiative might best arise and it was agreed that as a first stop La’. Colbsn should prepare a statement of tho facts.
M. .RAPPA 3D said that tho Government of Abyssinia had sont in a reply on tho subject of slavery. This reply was exceedingly frank in that it admitted tho existence of domestic slavery > and tho impossibility of its immediate abolition. Nevertheless, tho reply showed that the Government was taking steps immediately to abolish the traffic and, by forbidding tho making of new slaves to provide for tho extinction of slavery within a generation or tv.ro.
»■*
ú
2
LEAGUE OP TIA HO ITS
istributed to vlaor-S o c re tari o s -rSncral asd .Giro ctors
Directors1 Meeting 115 Geneva»
iy 15 th s 1924 o
MI ITU ns of Jblio DIHEC TOPS : MEIETIIIG-, Tuesday, May 14th,1924«
Prosent;-
Socretary-General
Hie Dcpaty ‘ Seere tary-General.
Dr. ITitot6,
Sir Herbert Ames,
Prof« Bappard,
M. C oner t,'
M. Mantous'j ‘
Dr. Bajo liman,'
Mr* Gilchrist,
M0 Remain,
Mr. V/iln on,	(Secretary).
1	ci —* The SECBETAEY-GSHEBAL said that he proposed to postpone tc a later meeting, when more Directors world be present, the consider! tion of a paper which had been distributed concerning a new form for Council documents»
2	n~ Hie SECHSTARY-GBBEBAIj said that, in his opinion, the mooting of the Supervisory Commission which had just come to an end had been on the whole, satisfactory« Important outs had, however*, been made by the Commission in the two following cases:
Hirst, the library. The members of the Commission agreed that the work was admirably done, but they thought that the system employed was in seme respects unnecessarily complicated. The Secretary-General had found it difficult to refute certain of the arguments of the Commission,and consequently he had agreed to a cut of
25$ in the personnel on condition,hov/ovor, that it should be spread ever two years; (15$ in 1925 and 10$ in 1926). He ho-mod that by this
moans the members of
the library staff concerned
might be absorbed
elsewhere than in the Secretariat
2
Secondly, the Budget of tie Health Organisation had been reduced by 183,000 francs. The Commission had taken the viow that, though all work proposod by the Organisation was well worth doing, it was not right that its work should develop out of proportion to that of the other technical organisations.
They therefore decided to proposo a sum which would allow of work already undertaken being executed, but prohibiting now inquiries being started till some of thoso begun had been terminated. The Budget presented to the Supervisory Commission, as already approved by the Health Committee, would ho printed as an annex to the Budget submitted to the Assembly.
The Supervisory Commitsicn had still to consider the question of publications, and for the present it had merely asked that a list should bo drawn up showing which publications had been authorised by the Council or the Assembly and which not.
The report of the auditor on the accounts of tho league for 1923 had been quite satisfactory.
3.	- Ma AYEHOL thought that steps sho lid in future bo taken to co-ordinate at an early stago the budgets of the technical organisations of the League, It was a dolicate task, as thoso budgets were approved by committees which wore representative of a large number of governments and had some sense of responsibility, Nevertheless, they should realise that the needs of thoir particular organisation could not be satisfied at the expense of other organisations.
He proposed that when the Directors of the technical sections drafted their budgets they might oonfor, with a viow to presenting to the Soorotary-General clear proposals in harmony with one another.
4.	- The SB CHET ARY-GE NEBAL said that he had hoard that the German Government would probably raise -at the Ecmo Emigration
-3-
Conference tha que t-ion of Russian refugees, and therefore it had bean decided chat Major Johnson should go to tha Conference.
Iho question of Russian refugees had entered on an interesting stage, as Dr, Nansen and tha Soviet authorities wore unable to agree on repatriation, tha Soviet authorities insisting that no guarantee could be given of the treatment of the refugees once returned to the territories of the Union, and Dr, Nansen maintaining that in these circumstances repatriation was impossible, Dr. Nansen proposed to announce that, if the Soviet authorities persisted in this attitude, it would bo necessary tc wind up the Office cf the High Commission in Moscow, This, it appeared, the Soviet authorities would dislike, and it was possible that they would consequently give way,
5 3- The SECRETARY GENERAL said that on May 17th he would leave for London and then for a tour through the Scandinavian countries..
He would be joined at Christiania by K. Mantoux, M, Kodollo and M, Hr abb e ,
Professor RAPHAEL asked whether it would not be better that the Secretary-General, in official visits to small councries, should be accompanied by nationals of small countries, Otherwise the existing impression that the League was an insvruiiient of the great Dowers, might bo strengthened.
Dr u Van HAMEL also thought this consideration important,
The SECRETARY GENERAL said that the present arrangement, which had caused no little difficulty, owing to the fact that Me Ccmort had been unable to accompany him, as had been originally intended, seemed to him on the whole satisfactory, but he would bear in mind the point raised by Professor Eappard.
6„- M„ AVENOL said that the results of the French elections
-4-
indicated a re-ant ion against the internal rather th‘:n the external policy of the Pomos.re Government,, In any case, Jh Poincare would resign, and it seemed thet M„ Heriot would form a Government from the Radical Parties, This new Government might bo expected to be not only sympathetic but actively interested in the League,.
7„-	M,- ROJvIEIZ raised the question whether reductions in salaries
on account of the fall in the cost of living operated in respect of annual increments-
The SECRETARY GKI7ERAL said that they did. Ho intended however, to study the question of the cost of living in Geneva in relation to the cost of living in Switzerland as a whole*
8 e Dr. FAJCHMAN said that the Health Committee, cf which the second session had just ended was now fully constituted., subject tj the Council's approval, by the appointment of the twentieth member, nominated in agreement between the League of Rod Cross
Societies and the International Committee of the Red Cross,
The Health Committee had considered the question of the port to be chosen as the site of the Bureau of Epidemiological Intelligence in the Par East, the institution of which had been approved by the Council in March. The Governments pf Par Eastern countries had boon consulted, and, though some had not replied and
others preferred to give no opinion, the opinions which had boen expressed were — with one exception in favour of Singapore, which would presumably be the port finally chosen,
On the request of the Opium Advisory Committee, the Health Committee had examined the question of the amount of opium required for legitimate medical purposes, and had reached the figure, which represented a maximum quantity.
5-,
and was <juito approximate and somewhat ompirioal of ¿50 milligrammes per head of populations The Opium Commit too had ashed the Health Committee for certain further information on this
sub jo at
rihe Mixed Sub-Committee of the Opium and Hoalth Committees had also recommended the suppression of the use of h oroin„
The Health Committee had approved the nominations made by the Malaria Sub-Committee of aorresponding members designated in the first place by the Public Health Services concerned«
These members woro to undertake a collective tour at the invitation of Public Health Services in the countries visited.
The Health Committee had approved in principle the convocation of an inter-Governmental confer one o on the -yorld distribution of quinine> but for the moment it had decided to undertako no more than certain preliminary enquiries.
9. - Sir Herbert AMES reminded the Directors that a number of lantern slides illustrating the work done by the league would bo shown on May 15th at 9,-15 p.m.
Professor EAPPAKD thought that the Secretariat should in some way make it clear that it was responsible only for the production of the slides and not for any comments which lecturers might make upon them.
It was agreed that no absolute safeguard could be devised against improper use cf the slides, any more than against improper use of Secretariat documents such as the brochures of the Information Section. The Information Section ..was, however, asked to consider the point raised by Professor Bappard.
10= Mr• GILCHRIST said that the Committee appointed by the Council to examine the question of German colonists in Poland would meet in Paris on May 17th to consider certain proposals of the Polish Government.
11» Mr. GILCHRIST said that the Groco-Turkish Exchange Commission had, in view of the Rome Conference on Emigration, sent in a report which showed that the number of persons, Greek and Turkish, who had moved under the auspices of the Commission amounted on May 1st, to the unexpectedly high total of 200,000.
12.	Profosser RAPPÅRD asked whether there was any possibility of increasing the number sf the members of the Slavery Committee ao as to include two persons whose help would be very valuable, namely, a representative of the International Anti-Slavery Bureau and also Mr. Bellogardo (Haiti).
The SECRETARY GENERAL thought that aU that could be done would be to inform the Council verbally of the candidatures of these persons, in addition to the six experts whose names he had been instructed to submit.
13.	Dr. NITOBE said that the meeting? held in Brussels ef . various sub-committees of the Committee on Intellectual Cooperation had of technical rather than of general interest, with the exception of the University Sub-Committee, which had considered the Spanish proposal with regard to an international
university, On closer examination this proposal appeared to
sight
be much less alarming than at first/and amounted in fact to little more than an exchange of professors.
i
LBA-GUE OF HA TI GITS .
Directors' Meeting 115. BEBA TOM.
\
BREA TOI I.
MIIÏÏJ3ES 0? DIKESC TOES 1 MES TUTG 315 .
Last lino of pago 1: delete "than"
_ _0b
LEAGUE PF NATIONS,	'	‘
Directors meeting 116. Geneva, May 22nd, 1924.
MINT'?Eg Q?___DIRECTORS MEETING,
May 21st, 1924,
Present:	The Deputy Secretary-General
Dr-, Nit one Sir Herbert Ames Mo Mantoux Dr, van ilamol M, P ap p ar a Me Loon Dufour Mr, Gilchrist Mr, Cummings
Mr, Wilson, Secretary.
1» The Deputy Secretary-General said that in an uneventful week the following points might be Mentioned, (Greece had complained against the British Government with reference to the administration of the mandate for Palestine, and the question would be heard by the Permanent Court of International Justice at its session beginning on June 16th,
Tho Permanent Advisory Committee for Military, Naval and Air Questions1 had just finished its session at Paris but tho reports had not yet arrived.
Tho Committee on the Reform of the Calendar was also in session Reports from Hungary were ver£ satisfactory,
2,	Mr, GIIiCKRlST said that the Committee of the Council on the question of German colonists in Poland had met in Paris over tho week-end and had decided to send to Warsaw Captain Phillimore as export to settle if possible the amount of the in&onrity to be paid to tho colonists. Captain Phillimore would report to the Committee which would then report to the Council.
3,	Mr; GILCHRIST said that most of tho reports on Danzig questions had already been sent in draft to the Rapporteur, and if approved
by him, would be shewn privately in Danzig, where Mr, Gilchrist was going, to the Polish and Danzig authorities. The Rapporteur could then take their observations into account before the reports were
distributed.
-2-
4s MB. GILCHRIST said that so far, for the first time in the history of the League, there was no Saar question on the agenda of the Council,
5» DR. VAN HAMEL said that the complaint made by the Greek Government against the British Government whioh was to bo heard by the Permanent Court eoncernod certain concessions in Palestine whioh the Greek Government had received from the former Turkish Government. The Greeks alleged that the administration of tho mandate had prejudiced their legitimato interests. The British Government was bound to accept arbitration as there was a compulsory arbitration clause in the Mandate.
6.	MR. CUMMINGS gave certain explanations with regard to the Minute sent round by the Information Section asking that .no member of the Secretariat should receive a certain Gorman journalist, who was suspected of obtaining and dividing confidential documents of the Leaguec
Tho DEPUTY SECRETARY-GELERAL hoped that Dirootors would take such steps as lay within their power to ensure that such confidential documents should not fall into unauthorised hn ds.
7,	M. LEON DUFOUR said that the recent Conference of Exports on Unfair Competition had revised tho text of the existing Convention on this subject,. The Economio Committee, the session of which had followed that of the Conference of Exports, had adoptod the test proposed by the Experts and had recommended to the Council that it should be oommunicatod to Members of the League.
The Economic Committee had also dealt with the constitution of the technical organisation provided for by the Customs Convention, the treatment of strangers with regard to right of practising a profession, co-operation with the International Labour Offico in the enquiry on unemployment, and tho proposal submitted by M. Zumota of
- 3 ~
Vonozuola concerning comaorciai frauds.
9a II. iIAJTTOUJC described the difficulties pf transporting the ranis o given by the Roumanian Government to the fun in bed population of Albania. The best solution,ivhich it was still hoped would be practicable, was to obtain free transport by lend across Jugo-Slavian territory.
II. IIA1TTOU5H said that the Albanian Government had made, complaints:
fa) That Albanian liussulmcn who were Greek subjects were being treated as if they fell within the terms of the Greco Turk 1 sh 3 ■ :cha nge C on von t i on.
(2) That in general Greek subjects of Albanian race wore being so treated that they were practically forced to leave the country.
further enquiries were being made from the Albanian Government before it was decided whether these complaints should he submitted to the Councils
10.	M. Kappard said that there were still two nominations for the Commission on Slavery which had not yet been definitely made
LEAGUE PF NATIONS,
Directors meeting 116. Genov a, May 2 2nd, 1924.
MINDTES OF DIRECT QHS MEETING,
May 21st, 1924.
Present:	Tho Deputy Secretary-General
Dr, Nitohe Sir Herbert Ames Mu Mantoux Dr, van Hamel M, P.appard Me Leon Dufour Mr, Gilchrist - Mr , Cummings
Mr, V/ilson, Secretary.
1,	Tho Deputy Secretary-General said that in an uneventful week the following points might ho iccntioned, (Greece h°d complained against tho British Government with reference to the administration of tho mandate for Palustinc, and the question would he heard by the Permanent Court of International Justice at its session beginning
on Juno 16thr
Tho Permanent Advisory Committee for Military, Naval and Air Questions had just finished its session ab Paris but tho reports had not yet arrived.
The Committee on the Reform of the Calendar was also in session= Reports from Hungary were very setisf actory,
2,	Mr- GILCHRIST said that the Committee of the Council on the question of Gorman colonists in Poland had met in Paris over tho week-end and had decided to send to Warsaw Captain Phillimore as export to settle if possible tho amount of the indorrity to bo paid to tho colonists. Captain Phillimore would report to the Committee which would then report to the Council.
3,	Mrc GILCHRIST said that most of the reports on Danzig questions had already been sent in draft to the Rapporteur, and if approved
by him, would be shewn privately in Danzig, where Mr. Gilchrist was going, to the Polish end Danzig authorities, Tho Rapporteur could then take their observations into account before tho reports were
distributed.
4.	MB* GILCHRIST said that so far, for the first time in tho history of the League, there was no Saar question on the agenda of the Council.
5.	DH. VAN HAMEL said that tho complaint made by tho Groek Government against the British Government whioh was to ho heard hy the Permanent Court eoncernod oertuin concessions in Palestine which the Greek Government had received from tho former Turkish Government. The Greeks alleged that tho administration of tho mandate had prejudiced thoir legitimato interests. The British Govorament was hound to aocept arbitration as there was a compulsory arbitration clause in the Mandate.
6.	MR. CUMMINGS gave certain explanations with regard to tho Minute sent round by the Information Section asM.ng that no member of the Secretariat should receive a certain Gorman journalist, who was suspected of obtaining and dividing confidential documents of the League.
Tho EEPUTY SECRETARY-GENERAL hoped that Direotors would tako such steps as lay within thoir power to ensure that such confidential documents should not fall into unauthorised heads.
7.	M. LEON LUPOUR said that the recent Conference of Exports on Unfair Competition hod revised tho text of the existing Convention on this subject, Tho Economic Committee, the session of which had followed that of tho Conferonoo of Exports, had adopted tho test proposed by the Experts and had recommended to the Council that it should be communicated to Members of the League,
The Economic Committee had also dealt with the constitution of the technical organisation provided for by the Customs Convention, tho treatment of strangers with regard to right of practising a profession, co-operation with the International Labour Office in the enquiry on unemployment, and tho proposal submitted by M. Eumota of
3
>-*
Venezuela concerning commercial frauds.
9» II. i-iJ.TfC'UX. do sc riled tlio difficulties jjf transporting the maiso given Toy the Roumanian Government to the finished population of Albania. 2he best solution,y/hieh it was still hoped would be nracticable, was to obtain free transport by land across Jugo-Slaviaji territory.
M. LIAlTiPOUX said that the Albanian Government had made.
complaints:
(a)	OSiat Albanian I.Iussulmcn who were Greek subjects were being treated as if they fell within the terras of tho Greco Turkish A--.change Convention.
(S) Hint in general Greek subjects of Albanian race worn being so treated that they were practically forced to leave the
country.
Pur the r enquiries wore being made from the Albanian Government before it was decided whether these complaints should be submitted to the Counci 10
10. li. Rappard said that there were still two nominations for tho Commission on Slavery vAaich had not yet been definitely made
o t
nni-ÜP £D BATIAL
LEAGUE OIT K ATI CUS (Directors' minutes
117)
Geneva, June 12th, 1924
June 5th, 1924
M de IZADASIAGA
DE. YAII HALSL
M. CATASTIHI
MR. ABRAHAM
MR. CUMMINGS
MR. HIAM
MR. 'TALTERS
MR. 7ILS0N, Secretary.
1} THE DEPUTY SEC RET-vRY GEE ERAL said that the following items had been added to the Agenda of the 29th Session of the Council :
1)	Communication from the British Government on the subject of Iraq. This communication submitted tc the Council a draft instrument intended to implement the agreements already signed by the British and Iraq Governments. The British Government proposed that if, before the meeting
of the Council, the Iraq Government had ratified these agreements, the Council might approve the draft instrument. Should, however, the Iraq Government have failed to ratify, the British Government would submit other proposals.
Though the use of the word "mandate” was omitted in the communication of the British Government, the draft instrument was evidently intended to serve the purpose of a mandate in the sense of paragraph 4 of Article 22 of the Covenant.
2)	Examination of the rights cf the Council in respect of Article 159 of the Treaty of St. Germain and
-2-
of the corresponding articles of tho Treaties of Trianon and 1-Teuilly.
'Pif 1 T AT":
placed on the agenda by the British. Govern-
ment, concerned disarmament in Austria and other Succession States. The decision which the Council might take thereon would doubtless have an important effect cn the negotiations new taking place between the Conference of Ambassadors and the German Government on the subject of German disarmament.
3)	The measure of authority end responsibility enjoyed by the individual members of the Governing Commission of the Saar - placed on the agenda by the British Government.
4)	A communication from the German Government concerning the importation of German goods Territory.
Finally, it	appeared	possible
Arabassaders woul	d ask the	Cc une i1
of the Monastery	at haoum	on the A
A nnrsT Tft O	s « r- •? h
describee the worn c:
:e noms
frontier.
II.	rHCTZSSOh
Conference.
The presence of If. Gusni os Acting President of the Council had been greatly appreciated. Ee would probably make a report to the Council on his visit.
The technical work of the Conference would doubtless
be made the subject of reports by the variou
u-O O Kj o
tiens of
the	Secretariat	represented therea	t.	In general, he wished
to	say that the	institutions of th	e	League had profited by
;he Conference. The final resolution of the Conference which was to be transmitted both to Governments and to Internationa
s 11 y full liberty
Cl L'd a li	to Govermen
4- p p yj V ula	1sttor rract
organise cions, lei
to deal with the immigration questions in * thought fit. Owing to the presence of the America at the Conference, it had been impossible to accept a
ch a way as the ni ted States of

resolution mentioning "by nemo
league or the International
labour Organisation, but the formula adopted "Internetione 1 Organisations" really meant the secretariat, the International labour Office and the Interactional Institute of Agriculture of home.
It mas interesting to note that a group of South American countries had shove: themselves opposed to the intervention of t ie International Labour Office in immigration questions on the grounds fl) that the influence of the Office mould be such 2s to encourage in South American States the growth of the so far unknown forces of syndicalism and socialism,
(£) that as immigration was quite as much a political as an industrial question, it was bettor that the league as such should deal with it.
In conclusion, he thought that the league, recognising the fact that in a few years migration would be the leading question of international politics, should affirm its competence in migration questions.
TEL DEPUTY SLCklPAEY GLIiAHAL thought that great credit woe due to Professor Attolieo for the way in which the Sons Conference had preserved the rights of the existing interna t i one1 institutions*
He agreed that the league should recognise the growing political importance of migration and that its various organs should study the question. The r elation of the league's competence in this matter to that of the International Labour Organisation should be delicately handled,
Q -T-~ TJ~ • ■ —> - ■ • k»- - lj	AT ALLS said the	t he was leaving for	Canada
the morning	oh the 7th end	■culd be glee to help	Direct
any negotis	tions ’’hieh t eg	r might want conducted	in the
Dominion
4 ) MR . ABRAHAM Albania had been troubles in the been bought was 113 DEPUTY
said that the distribution of reli temporarily suspended owing to the country and that the food which had being kept in South Italy.
SECRETARY GEPEEml pointed out that
ef in political
already
it was most
important that the League, when it undertook a «/ork not part of its normal functions, such as the relief of famine, should darry it out efficiently ana there was some discussion on the
question whether the methods employed by Professor Pittard were the most suitable. The hope was expressed that he would soon return to Albania to supervise personally the distribution of relief.
5)	MR. COL BAN said that the nine Danzig questions originally on the agenda of the coming session of the Council had been reduced by various fortunate agreements to two
Of the two Saar questions which, as stated by the Deputy Secretary General, had been added to the agenda, the one raised by the British Government concerning the responsibility of individual members of the Governing Commission largely rested, he thought, on a misunderstanding, ana that submitted by the German Government would probably be settled later by mutual agreement.
A note on tho question of the Saar gendarmerie had also beon submitted by the German Government. The document had been distributed but it was too late to put tho question on the ageni The economic situation of the Saar was giving rise to some anxiety owing to the lack of credit.
Questions of minorities. On the question of German colonists in Poland, Captain Phillimoro, who had beon sent by the Committee of the Council to Poland to settle the amount of
tho indemnity to be paid, had submitted proposals to the Committee. The difficult negotiations on the question of Polish nationality were being continued at Vienna.
Mo other minorities questions were officially before the Council, but a number of them were before the Council of Three, the importance of which was increasing. Undoubtedly if effort was made to avoid provoking public ill-feeling, the league could do much to solve minority questions.
6)	MR. COLBAH described his visit to Koumania. He had obtained all the information he required concerning minorities. He had found among the members of the Government a feeling of good-will to the League, and in general, the position of the League was much more favourable there than on the occasion of his former visit. The students at the Universities of Clu.j and Bucharest had shown themselves interested in the work of the League.
7)	UR. MAD.iiiIi.GA. said that ho had submitted to the Secretary-General a proposal to the effect that representatives of the Soviet Government and of the Government of the united States of America, should be invited to be present on the Third Committee of the next Assembly for the discussions on the report of the Rome IIaval Conference and of the question of the traffic in arms respectively. If this was to be done, the Council would have to decide to issue the invitations at the forthcoming session.
D
The question placed on the agenda by the British Government, namely, the rights of the Council with regard to disarmament in Austria and other Succession States, had already “been touched upon by tlio Permanent Advisory Commission. Presumably, the Council would immediately refer the question to the Permanent Advisory Commission for an exhaustive study.
Professor ATTOLICO thought that it should not be taken for granted that this a cession would be immediately referred to the Permanent Advisory Commission. There was an important political and juridical principle involved which the Council should consider before asking the advice of a technical body like the Commission. '
Mr. WALTERS thought that the idea of the British Government was to ask the Permanent Advisory Commission to examine the question from a technical point of view. If the Commission discovered a satisfactory technical solution, the Council would the» proceed to discuss the larger political question whether it should apply the solution so proposed.
There was some discussion on the point whether the Council
was, in fact, bound by the decisions of the Permanent Advisory Commission. It was explained that the Commission represented the general staffs rather than the Governments of the Members of the Council, but oven so, the Council would find it very hard to put aside its recommendations.
8)	Eir Arthur ¿ALTER said that the negotiations for the Hungarian loan had recently undergone a crisis. Deterred by the failure of two recent European loans on the American market, American bankers had decided not to support the Hungarian loan. The fright of the American houses had infected European bankehs.
7
fins. 11;/, the Bank ox England had consented, after strenuous negotiations, to provide, apart from the four million already promised by British banks and on condition that Continental houses provided four millions, another three-and-a-haIf millions secured on the bonds of the long-term loan to be issued. This result, though fortunate for Hungary, had strained almost to breaking point any love v/hiah the City of London might bear towards the League of Nations.
For the work of the Greek settlement Commission, another million had been obtained from London. Later, the question of a long-term loan would have to be tackled.
As Hr. Morgenthau would not return before the autumn, ho v;ould be glad to receive from Directors any suggestions concerning a possible substitute for him for the ne::t three or four months
9)	Sir Arthur SALTER thought that the form of the Monthly Summary was not the most suitable for the average reader.
At present, the subjects dealt with in the Summary wore presented in their administrative framework. For instance, a man wishing to know what the League had done about Hungary, must look up "Technical Organisations", "Economic and Financial Organisation", otc. Now none but the officials of the League were really familiar with this administrative framework and therefore it was better that in a publication like the summary, designed for the information of the public, the matter should be arranged under subject headings. For reference purposes the schematic organisation now used could be continued in an arme::.
-8-
The DEPUTY SECR^TaRY GENERAL, dismissing a suggestion which had been thrown out that the present system represented a victory of "logique française" over "dérationalisme anglo-saxon", thought that it had the advantage of teaching readers som^fcRrng of the League’s organisation.
Professor ATTOLIGO thought that the presentation of the Assembly agenda showed the same unimaginative formulism.
Mr. CUMMIUG j said that the question had been considered
be
by the Information Section before, but would/examined again in the light of Sir Arthur Salter’s suggestions.
10)	Bir Arthur SxiLTER hoped that the present pi^ctioe whereby the opening speech of the resident of the Council at the session of the Assembly reviewed the events of the year would be continued. He would suggest that the speech should be separately published and sold in England at Id* Being oheap and short, this account of the League’s work would reach the largest possible public, and not being given free, it would stand a chance of being read*
Professor ATTOLICO thought the co-ordination of the work of the technicians interested only in correct publication, and of the Information oection interested in attractive presentation, was unsatisfactory and should be examined.
3ir Herbert aiiE3 thought that the difficulty lay in the fact that hitherto no provision had been made in League budgets for propaganda. In future provision should bo so made,
10)	Dr. NITOBE said that his information from Japan added nothing to the newspaper accounts of the present crisis on
-9—
immigration. He hoped to know next week whether the Japanese Government would submit the guest ion to the International Court. as a result of the crisis, it seemed that the Cabinet, one of the most unpopular ever known, was to resign. The anti-American demonstrations in Tokio had been directed not against the American public, but against Congress with which it was thought the public was largely out of harmony«
11)	ivl. C-..TA3TIHI gave further information with regard to the British proposal concerning Irag.
12)	M. CiTAdTIHI said that the meeting of the Mandate Commission had been fixed for June £4th0
13)	Professor .TÏ0LIC0 said that the Argentine Government was sending a delegation to the forthcoming labour Conference, but would send none to the assembly« Hitherto, in Argentine, the Labour Organisation was not generally known to form part of the institutions of the League, and the Government thought it best that the reconciliation of the people to the League should be attempted gradually.
LEAGUE OF NATIONS,
CONFIDENTIAL.	Directors*1 2 3 Me- oing No. 118.
minutes op Directors * meeting
June 20th, 1924.
Present:
The Secretary-General, Mo Attolico,
Dr, Niiobe,
Dame 'Rachel Crowdy,
Mi, Col."ban,
Sir Arthur Salter,
Dr. Ranchman,
Professor Eappard,
Mo Mantoux,
Dr0 van Hamel,
Mo Madariaga,
Mo Denis 5 M, Comert,
Mo Haas ,
Mr. Bieler,
Mr, Wilson, Secretary.
1. The SECRETARY-GENERAL said that in his opinion the smoothness of the proceedings of the recent meeting of the Council was largely due to the fact that M. Benes, as President, had before the Session » thoroughly studied every item of the agenda, and had attempted to
anticipate and conciliate difficulties.
had
MM Benes/suggested that at future sessions of the Council the President should spend a certain time before each meeting in a room at the Secretariat in order that those who wished to see him without going to his hotel might do so.
2, The SECRETARY GENERAL referred to the memorandum circulated
to the Council by the British Government concerning the difficulties caused to Governments by the late receipt of Council documents. As had been stated at the Council, the rule to be observed was that these documents should be received by Governments a fortnight before the Session. He proposed to issue a circular to the Présidente of,.
- 2 -
IiGF-gue Comrnissionq , drawing attention to this decision of the Council and pointing out that in ord^r to comply with it Commissions should moot in time to permit of their reports to the Council being given to the Sec re tai iat for action throe weeks before the Council Session,
Sir Arthur SALTER drew attention to the great difficulties which would attend a rigid observance of this rule, Ecr instance, if it had been observed by the Financial Committee before tho recent Session of the Council, the two most important reports of that Committee namely, those on the reconstruction of Austria and Hungary, would have been out-of-date, Events had moved ver:y ra .idly in the ia^rg immediately preceding the Council:s session, and the useful decisions the Council was in fact able to take could not have been taken had the Committee met three weeks before, Ee thought that this might frequently be the case as regards the Financial Committee, the work of which concerned situations changing from day to day.
Above all, if it was necessary for the Committee to defend its policy before the Council, a meeting three weeks before the Council was impossible,
The SECr.ETAPY-GEEEEAL agreed that there would necessarily arise excertiors to the rule, which, nevertheless, should be apnlied as far as possible. At the same time, every effort should be made to avoid delay in the Secretariat in despatching the reports of Committees to the Governments,
Several Directors pointed out that it would be practically impossible to induce Commissions to meet in tho early part of August, especially es they would feel that, as the Councils September session would last over about a month, there was less necessity for a strict observance of the rule.
?
- 3 -
Professor ATTOLICO sail that the action incumeent on the Secretariat was to notify Commissions of the rule laicl down by the Council in order that the calendar of meetings might bo drawn up sccordingly, If for any strong reason a Commission was unable to comply with the decision, it would explain its difficulties to the Councilc
3» The SECRETARY—GENERAL said that IvL Benes had made the following proposals with regard to the Assembly: a) that the election of the non-permanent members of the Council should bo held early in the session, preferably after the conclusion of the debate on the work of the Council; b) that the debate on the work of the Council should continue morning and afternoon until finished; c) that the Assembly Commissions should deal in the first place with less important subjects which could be quickly despatched. The Assembly would thus have early in its session certain reports on which to work. The more important reports of Commissions would be brought before the Assembly at the end of the session. The Secretary-General wished to point out that the acceptance of these suggestions, which appeared to him good, made it desirable that the reports of advisory committees should be presented to the Council at the earliest possible date in order that the Assembly could then consider them after they had been dealt with by the Council.
In reply to M. Madariaga, the SECRETARY-GENERAL said that there seemed to be no objection to a committee sending in separate reports on different subjects.
There was some difference of opinion on the desirability of a continuous debate by the Assembly on the Report on the work of the Council.
Professor RAPP ARP suggested that, as the space allotted by most newspapers to the work of the Assembly was limited, the publicity
4
accorded to the proceedings of rhe Assembly might suffer i±' the most interesting debates, namely, those on the work of the Council, were compressed within three or four days,
H, CCHSP-T, on the other hand, thought that the continuity of these debates, which would no longer ho interrupted by sessions of Commissions dealing with more technical and less interesting subjects, would facilitate the work of correspondents and so i nip r or e pu b 1 i c i ty.
Dr. BAJCHI.IAN thought it important that Commissions should begin their work as soon as possible, preferably within the first rook of tie session, as the ho] ding of mootings of Commissions on consecutive days lessened the opportunity for negotiations between meetings <■
I.!* COL DAN thought that the treatment of ¡lino ri ties questions might suffer from a compression of the debate on the work of the Councile If delegates know that this debate which afforded an opportunity of airing these questions would be finished within three or four days, it would bo more difficult to prevent them from submitting formally to the Assembly motions of a far-reaching character which might perhaps bo concise and the form of which mialt be altered if time wero allowed for the necessary negotiations.
Professor ATTOIICO drew attention to the strain which would bo placed on the services of the Secretariat if, as a result cf
those changes	in	procedure Commissions were to moot		on	cons	ecutire
days. r?hi?	di	fi ic ul ty mi ?,h t	be avoided if Commiss	ions were to		
meet as early	as	possible and a	.rrange their agenda so		as to	1osp^tch
tho less inpo	rtant items first.		He hoped that with	re	eard	to the
continuity of	tin	e debate on the	work of the Council	no	herd	and fast
decision would be taken, Circumstances might arise such as tie<
prosoneg at the Assembly of tho heads of important Governments which would thoroughly justify such a proceeding; in other circumstances it might be inadvisable.
Tho SECRETARY-GENERA! agreed that no definite rule need bo made. In any case it was for the- Bureau of the Conference to decide when the time arose. The essence of tho proposals seemed to him to bo that tho unimportant questions should be quickly dealt with. The Assembly would thus begin with tho important debate on tho "rork of tho Council and end with tho important questions submitted by tho Commissions v Tho loss interesting part of the work would thus uomo in tho middle of the session. This scorned to him the best arrangement.
4.	The SECRETARY-GENERAL said that a small committee had been appointed to report to Professor Attolico on the advisability of holding the session of the Assembly at the Bâtiment Electoral, instead of at the Salle de la Reformation. It was agreed that a change should not be made unless it appeared to be very decidedly for the better.
5.	The SECRETARY-GENERAL said that the Argentine had paid its arrears of contribution to the League in full, with the exception that the payment had been made in Swiss instead of in gold francs. If no other decision was taken by the Assembly, the money would presumably be counted as surplus and distributed to the members who had paid.
6.	Ur. DIE 1ER said that as a result of the pavment by the Argentine the League now had over 10,000,000 francs in the bank.
A meeting of the Supervisory Commission would be held in Paris on the 27th to consider a draft scheme prepared by Dr, Nederbragt and Lord Heston on pensions for the judges of the
Court.

7,	Professor HAPPED said that Commission v;ould "bs a in on Jane 24th, a; a fortnight later. The most important
session of the Mandates id of the Slavery Commission Mandate question still under
consideration by the League was that of Irak, as being both the last Mandate to be approved and in virtue of its connection with the Mosul question.. Eov drew ft tent ion to the complications which might arise if the proposals by the British Government, intended to be £ substitute for the I rail Mandate, were accepted by the Council before a settlement on the Mosul cuestion had been attained.
8,	M. HAAS said that he wished to raise two points in connection with the Rome Immigration Conference:
	l) rTould it not	be	advisable	to ask	the	Council to	
define	certain principles	vh	ich shciiId	in future		govern the r	c tion
of the	Secretariat when in	vi	ted to lend	s taff	to	conferences	convened
otherwise than under the auspices of the Leasrue?
2) Might not it be wise to make a rule that the Secretariat should prepare documents for such conferences only on condition that the origin of the documents was made plain to the persons receiving them?
The SSCPMTARY-GEEEPAI did be askod to lay down such rules; he by LI, Haas should be very carefully case of on invitation to send staff
not agree that the Council should thought that the points raised considered as each particular to a .conference arose.
Pr0 P.AJCHI.IA1T agreed with LM Haas ls proposals. If he had boon called upon at Porno to take an effective part in the conference, he would have been very embarrassed in doing so without previous consultation with the Health Committee. Perhaps in future
invitations to such conferences made possible for the technical earned to have their say.
should be accepted only if it was organisations of the League con-
îho
3	.¡50 P E T ARY - GElTETt Al wondered whe ther this was necessary, as the function of the- staff of the Secretariat lent to such conferences was to give information, ana only very unofficially to give ad'.'ice of any kind. The question of taking responsibility for policy, therefore, did not arise.
Professor ATTOLICO thought that this was a question which par excellence admitted of the formulation of no definite principles Each case would have to be considered at it arose.
9.	II. COLBiil? wished to raise two administrative points:
1)	'"hat steps could be taken to ensure that documents registered as confidential should be treated as such?
If, as had happened, the confidential nature of these documents was not strictly observed, there was no alternative but the very unsatisfactory one of Directors keeping confidential documents in their own private files.
2)	Ee had been told, after the recent session of the Council, that the accuracy of a verbatim report could not be guaranteed. Could the required accuracy be assured in future?
It was agreed that Professor Attolico should examine the
first of these two points,
With regard to the second, II. COMEP.T suggested that at meetings of the Council an official of the Section concerned with the item being discussed should take notes, as was done at the meetings of Commissions of the Assembly.
The SECPETAP.Y-GEITEEAL thought this hardly necos that could bo done was to ensure that competent verbatim were available. An accurate report was indispensable to Secretariat when presented with complaints by members of of errors in the minutes, According to present practic three rules concerning the treatment of such complaints:
sary; all reporters
the
the Council e there were
8
i;	C ounc	i-	l m	embers	had	the	re	erh è	to	ash	for	changes	to	ho	made
in	the f	orm		of the	mi nu	tes	of	th	eir	spa	echos	, both i:	n	the	pro-
Vln	ional	c	end	final	mi nu	tes;		2)	cha:	nges	in t	he subs t	an	ce o	f these
•H ñ	utos . »	V	vhe	thor provis		iona	1	or	fin	al,	could	only be	m	ado	af tor
con	.suite	ti on		wi th	the P	re si	de	nt;	3	) oh	snges	concernin		g th	e record
of	a vot	o	could al		so be	m ad	0	onl	y a	f tor	cons	ui dation	w	i th	the
Pro	si den	t,	>												
			If	there	was	any	doubt		of	the	cate	gory in		ich	the
request foil, the Secretary-General could "be consulted,
10 r, D ame R ac he 1 received to the effoc Convention by Switzer President's signature
CRCHDY said that a communication had been t that the Bill for adherence to the Opium land had passed both houses and that the had be on ob ta inod. 11
11,	Dr. 1TIT0BB said that the reports appearing in many papers that the Japanese Government might submit to the league its dispute with the American Government on the subject of emigration were contradicted by private and more dependable information which
he had
Directorsr Meeting, No.I
Confidential.
MINUTES OF THE DIRECTORS' MASTING-. June 25th. 19S4.
Present :	The Secretary-General
The Deputy Secretary-General
Dr. Nitobe
Dr . v an Hame 1
Dame Rachel Crowdy
M. Mantoux
M. Golban
Dr. Rajchman
M. Madariaga
M. Haas
Mr. Cummings
M, Leon Dufour
Mr. Dieler
Mr Wilson (Secretary).
1.	The SECRETARY-GENERAL thought that the question might
be considered whether reports to the Assembly which covered partly the same ground as the Report on the Work of the Council, need in future be so complete. It might be possible in the Reports to the Assembly to omit the part dealt with in the Report cn the Work of the Council and simply refer to it.
Dr. RAJCHMAR said that in so far as concerned the Health Organisation the Secretariat was bfiund by a Resolution of the Assembly to submit a special annual report which should be complete. Moreover a report had to be submitted to the "Office International". It would therefore be difficult to make a change in the case of the Health Organisation.
M. HAAS thought that it was very desirable to avoid preparing two reports which should treat of the same subject in different words. Nevertheless the Assembly might insist on receiving a complete report. He would suggest therefore that the parts of the Report on the Wprk of the Council concerned
should be repeated verbatim in the Report to the Assembly. Moreover, the title 'Report on the ./ork of the Council” was in accurate and apt to mislead people concerning the nature of tho organisations of the League. It might be cla nged to some such title as "Work of the Organisations of the League
under the Direction of tho Counc_l".
the
Tho DGPUTY-SA Assembly might
CRSTiiRY GMÎERAL thought that the Report deal with the technical aspects of tho
subjects contained in tho reports * while the Report on tho Work of the Council would do a?, with the political aspects c Duplication could thus be avoided on the basis of a logical
a iv is ion.
Kk MADARIAGA pointed out that tho Report of tho Temporary Mixed Commission which was transmitted by the Council to the assembly differed considerably from the part of tho Report on the Work of tho Council relating to disarmament, though it
covered largely the same ground, It. would thurefc.ro bo difficult- to follow tho procedure suggested by the Deputy
S e c r o t ar y - C o ne r a 1 o
The DAPUTY S 3 CRST ARY - GE HER A L said that he was thinking of tho reports of the technical organisations which, unliko tho Temporary Mixed Commission, were not advisory bodies to the Council but had an autonomous constitution.
II. COLBAIî pointed cut tho d .ngors of tempering with the Report on the Work of the Council as at present prepared, either as regards its contents or its title. The establishment cf the tradition whereby tho Report on the Work of the Council to the -issembly covered all tin political activities of the League was one of the important victories won in the attempt to give substance to the spirit of the Covenant.
The SACRET ARY-GE HERAL agreed.
Iur „ CUMMINS and M, MaNTOUX drew attention to the value for publicity and propaganda purposes of having in the Report on the v/ork of the Council a single volume covering the activities of the League for a year.
It was decided that a meeting of the representatives of the technical organisations, which Lame Rachel Crowdy would also attend, would be held on the following morning under the Chairmanship of the Deputy Secretary-General.
The ShCHSTiiRY GENERAL said that he had discussed with M. Hymans, who would presumably open the Session of the forthcoming Assembly, the question of the opening speech,
M. Hymans agreed that this speech, as in former years, should contain a review of the work of the League for the past year , Would tho Information Section please prepare a statement in French giving a skeleton for the speech, which M. Hymans would certainly wish to fill in himself.
Mr, CUMMINGS referred to the point raised by Sir Arthur Salter at a previous Directors' Meeting, whether this speech might not bo published as a penny pamphlet, and it was decided that this should if possible be done.
The S3CHETARY-GSN3RAL suggested that Mr . Walters and M„ Donas should take the first opportunity of examining the Time Table, procedure, secretarial and administrative arrangements, for the next Session of the Assembly.
Mr. CO LB AN said that he would make every effort to prevent extravagant and exeiting proposals on minorities questions being submitted to the Assembly. Nevertheless there was always a danger lest such proposals might be made from either side - from the side of governments bound L„ minorities treaties and from the side of governments not so bound. This danger, as he had formerly pointed out, would be greatly increased if tho debates on the work of the Council
were finished within two or Lhroo days.
In reply to the S3CHSTARY C 'LISRAL, Mr. GCLBAIT said that if ho found the submission of difficult questions to be unavoidable k he would arrange for a decision by the Assembly to refer all such questions to the Sixth Committee.
Dr. Lj'-OLJ said that recently two cases had arisen of international associations inserting in their statuses a provision whereby the assets of the association, if the association should be dissolved, would go to the league. One such association had asked if the League had any objection to such a provision, The question was a difficult one as it was not certain that assets might, not bt; interpreted to cover goods, the possession of which would be an embarrassment to the League.
Mr. BIELER stated that under the financial regulations gifts could only be accepted on the authority of the Council, and, in some circumstances, of the Assembly.
The SECRETARY-GENERAL asked Dr. ITitobe to prepare a reply in collaboration with the Legal Section. This reply would make .it clear that the Secretariat could take no responsibility for the insertion in the statutes of sue association of such a provision as that referred to, and could in no way pledge the action of the League in any particular case.
cog? PR 5
(1)
(2)
(3)
r-
fjr 1$
IDEUTIAD.
LEAGUE OR	HATICKS.
Directors1 Meeting 120.
MIMUTSS 0? DIRECTORS 1 IIGETING. 2DD. JULY, 1924. AT 3.30 to.it.,
The Secretary-General
Dr. Hitote
Dane Rachel Crowdy
Dr. Ra j ohman
Dr. van Har.el
II. Comert
II. de iladariaga
IT. Deon Du four
Hr, Eiam.
Ilr. Abraham ll* Bonnet Mr. Bieler
Mr. Gilson, Secretary.
It was agreed that Dr. Nitobe and Hr. Bailey should be asked to represent the Secretariat at the Copenhagen Boy Scout Jamboree« M. Deon Dufour said that the Hungarian loan had been successful and rapidly subscribed.
The Secretary-General said that the Supervisory Commission had asked that Hr. ITederbragt night visit the Secretariat in August. The Commission hoped by means of this visit to be able to present to the Assembly an independent view of the budget proposals concerning the staff, especially those which concerned the Central Services, which had been practically accepted en bloc at the last meeting of the Commission«
The Secretary-General was not apprehensive of the results of the enquiry. He had taken the precaution of pointing out to Dr. ITederbragt that in an institution like the Secretariat, where in choosing staff, satisfaction had to be given to the claims of different nationalities, a certain amount of apparent overstaffing in higher ranks might be unavoidable«
« 2-
He had asked Dr. Noderbragt to come as late in August as possible.
(4)	M0 Comert spoke briefly of the Congress of the International Association of ¿ooieties for the League of Nations recently held at Lyons0 The delegations had been of ’very uneven quality and he thought that the proper attitude for the Secretariat to adopt with regard to the Association was to continue to show confidence in it, but to tr~ to induce the National Associations to send better delegates to the cozigressesc
(5)	Mr,, Abraham said that a Sub-Committee of the Greco-Turkish Mixed Commission had, in accordance with the request of the Council, presented a report on the question of Albanian Musulmen in Greecec The President of the Commission, M„ Eksbrand, had spent a month investigating
in the districts concerned, A very complete report had been sent in from which the general conclusion might be drawn that most of the Musulmen in Greece wished to become Turkish nationals. This was possibly due to the growing prestige of Turkey and had possibly not been so when the Albanian Government had first raised the question.
(6)	la Madariaga said that on July 7th, the Temporary Mixed Commission would meet and would consider the questions of control of the traffic in arms and the private manufacture of arms „
He hoped that on the first quest ion a draft would be drawn up, which, after discussion by the Assembly, might be submitted to a plenary conference. It was suggested that May would be a suitable month for this Conference and that the Government of the United States would probably consent to be represented there at that time.
Dr. Rajchman described the very satisfactory progress of the Malaria Commission which had already visited Yugoslavia, Greece and Bulgaria and would next week visit Warsaw and thence around to Russia.
Dr. Hitooe said that M. Lugones and M. Einstein had both accepted nomination as members of the Committee on Intellectual Cooperation,
He had also received a visit from an official of the Ministry of Education in Berlin, who had expressed the opinion that as the political channels through which Germany could cooperate with the League were few, it was most desirable for Germany to participate fully in the work of the Committee of Intellectual Cooperation.
Mr. Bieler said that the Supervisory Commission had met on the 28th of June and had agreed on a scheme for pensions for the judges of the Permanent Court.
LEAGUE 0? NATIONS
Directors' Meeting 121. MDIJTBS 0? TIE'1. DIRECTORS' MEETING.
Tuesday, August 19th, 1924.	33
Present:
The Secretary-General
The Deputy Secretary-General
Sir Herbert Ames
M. Oomert
M. Mantoux
Dr. Rajchman
Mr. Colban
Dame Rachel Crowdy
Mr. Madariaga
Mr. Haas
Mr. McEinnon Hood H. Leon Dufour LI. Catastini LI. Oprescu Mr. ’’'alters M. Denis Mr. Huston M. Vizier Dr. Dixon
Mr. Wilson, Secretary.
1.	Tho organisation of the 5th Assembly ’:,es discussed (see Special Circular 29 (l) 1924).
2.	Mr. HUSTON spoke of the possibilities of installin'? an am pi if i in the Assembly hall. It "’as agreed that this should, if oractic
ble, be done.
3.	Sir Herbert AMES raised the question of broadcasting, but it was decided that it would be too expensive to arrange this at tho next session of the Assembly.
4.	The SECRETARY 0"TTE3AL said that owin'? to the pressure of space in the Secretariat build in«?, which would become greater during the Assembly, ho was compelled to transfer at least one section to the Villa St. Victor. After considering the whole question very carefully, he had decided that the Mandates Section should be the first to bo so transferred. It might later prove necessary to move tho Transit Section also.
5.	There was some discussion on tiie denser which the present conditions of the election of non-permanent members of the Council constituted for the progress of the norh of the Assembly, and it was agreed that there -were advantages in these elections, at the forthcoming session, bains held at the beginning of the second week of the Assembly. As, however, the problem ^as of great difficulty, it was felt that the matter had better bo left to the solo discretion of the Assembly Bureau.
34
IE;.OIIB Cg H.'Jioirs.
3 i r c- c t o ra1 Hoot in g IT o. 12 2
IIiriJTES OS’ TEH DIBBCTORE1 IIEETHTG V/SD133DAY, OCTOBER 8th, A2 3.30 P.1I.
Present i -
The - Socro to, 17-Gonc; ra 1, Dr. Pitoho,
Sir Herbert aocs,
Hr IIcEtOUX,
Sir Arthur Suitor,
Dr van Hamel,
Hr. Cobban,
Dane Rachel Crowdy,
Ii. Haas,
Ur. Cunnings,
II. F’riis,
H. Ails on, Secretary. 1
1.	‘The SECREfuRY-GIilBRAL said that in his opinion
the fate of tho Protocol for the Pacific Settlement of
International Disputes depended largely on the attitude of tho British Government* At the moment there was little indication of whwt this attitude would he.
It had been arranged that the Council Committee , which was to prepare for tho Disarmament Conference provided for in the Protocol , would meet on Ifovember 171&. rho meeting night bo postponed for a woeh, if thereby a
rop resent a tire of tho be formed after the o to attend. Otherwise
now British Government, vfcich would mooted elections , voxild bo enabled the date ox Eovombor 17th should bo
maintained.
¿Sir Arthur 3ALIER hoped that there would bo published in England an article or pamphlet thoroughly
s
cOiwlys Inc, tho Birotocoi ana meeting such serious cb 1 octions to its terras as -sight he raised ’07 people generally
inclined to ho favourable to -it,
The Protocol had not
yot been carefully examined from the British point of viov/. As it appeared tho fate of the Protocol depended largely on the British attitude, this examination should ho made so that impartial students of international affairs, at any rate, should not condemn it through qii sunder Standings*
Certain names wore suggested by Director'S of persons who might he ashed to write or to sign tho proposed article. It -as finally agreed that Six- Arthur Salter and Hr. Cummings should thinli the matter over and mal:e suggestions to the Secretary-Generals
2.	Sir Arthur SALT DR referring to an article in the
5TlTation and tho Athonaeun" of October 4th on the material arrangements ox the Assembly, ashed whether something might not be done to raitigate, at the next Assembly tho evils of in extonso interpretation. Might not, for instance, translations of written speeches (i.c. about four-fifths of the speeches at plenary meetings) be distributed before the speeches were do live rod?
Mr. COIBAII thought the question would solve itself when the Assembly net in its now conference hall.
There,thoro would bc a, proper number of lobbies whore those who did not want to hear the translation could go without disturbing those who did.
The SBCfE AMfff-SALOP.AL was doubtful whether it 'would be possible to circulate translations of written speeches, as those were not usually completed until the last moment. Something, however, could bo said for merely
■3--
summarising the speeches, especially speeches on reports ox Committees* Delating speeches should ho interpreted in full •
3..	There v/us some discussion of the nano which should
he given to the Advisory Committee on tho Traffic of '/omen and Children when reconstructed. "Advisory Committee on Social Questions" was rebooted, as doscrihing too loosely the tasks placed on the Committee hy tho Covenant and the Assembly. Sir Arthui SALTER suggested as a title "Advisory Committee on (1) Child Welfare, (2^ Traffic irf Women and Children”; Dr. van HAMEL "Advisory Committee on tho Protection of Women and Children". It was agreed that a decision was not urgent, and that the inspirations of directors on tho subject should ho communicated to Dame Rachel Crowdy.
4.	It was agreed that, if it were necessary to convoke in the winter a session of tho Assembly, it were hotter dop.o hy a voto of the majority of the Council than hy a request from the majority of the Members of the league, (that is, under paragraph 2 instead of paragraph 3 of Rule 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly)
The SUCRE uMRY-(SPREAD pointed out that should it he found necessary to convoke the Assembly for December, the Council should then sit in Coneya, instead of in Romo»
5.	Dr. Van HAL CL thought that the time taken between tho receipt of documents by the "Receipt of Documents”
Branch, and their distribution to d dogates at tho Assembly was too long. He proposed that the Preparatory Committee for the ner.t session of tho Assembly should enquire how it could be shortened.
6.	Sir Aatkur SALTER said t at he had tentatively
suggested that the Economic and Financial Committeas should meet at Rome on December 4tli. It was necessary that they
-4-
should moot after the Council Committee (November I7th) and before the Council (liooombor 8th)« The SECRET ARY“ GENERAL thought the Presidents of the two Committees should attend the mooting of the Co—ordination Committee which he expected would moot, about November 27th for purposes of liaison.
He doubted whether it would.ovon be necessary. f*r the Presidents to. attend the meeting cf the Council,. which was not likely to modify, the prop-os his of the Council Committee.
If so ho thought it might be unnecessary, for, the Committees to meet in Rome...
Sir-Arthur SALTER said that he would consequcntly' let the Committees know that the choice of Romo or Geneva as their place, of meeting would depend on the result of the work of the Counoil Committee.
7.	Sir Herbert AMES drew attention to the fact that
very many Assembly documents had been printed in the last fortnight of August or in September at overtime rates, He urged very strongly that Sections should make every effort to have their documents printed in July and August, so as to diminish the pressure on the printing firms just before the. Assembly. Ho had investigated certain cases of printing so-delayed some of which-seemed avoidable, for instance, the publication of the Armaments (Year Bock).
Sir Arthur. SALTER pointed out that to avoid these difficulties was not always within-the power of the Sections, the Economic Committee, for instance, had insisted on preparing for submission to the Assembly a report separate from that submitted tc the Council. .This report had been ready only Just before the . Assembly.
-5-
8,	The SECRETARY GENERAL, taking up the last remark of Sir Arthur Salter observed that there was a tendancy
for the Assembly to regard the Advisory Committees as the servants cf the Assembly, rather than as the Servants of the Council alone. Whether the Advisory Committees were in any such way responsible tc the Assembly was a theoretical point well worth considering. In practice, in any <?as?e, it was desirable that reports cf these Committees should be submitted tc the- Assembly, if at all through the Council.
Sir Herbert AMES said that the League was now making more than 1000 francs a day in interest.
9,	Me HAAS hoped that the Assembly would in future caanc;-to recommend the granting cf special travelling facilities for various categories of persons whom it wished to favour. Last year facilities had been proposed for groups of students, boy scouts and girl guides, this year for university professors .
In reply to various complaints by directors concerning the means cf transport to Geneva, M. Haas agreed that the political reasons for improved rail communications with Genova wore strong enough to justify efforts being made £o that end even though no commercial gain for the Companies concerned would follow. He would examine the question, but thought that no practical results could be attained, unless it were taken by the Council or, preferably, the Assembly.
I(\	m. PR I IS said that the next session of the Permanent
Mandates Commission would bo held in Geneva cn 0ctobor23ra, instead of at London, as originally arranged.
The SECRETARY GENERAL said that Assembly resolution on tho general question of the place of meeting of the Committees of the League should appear on the Agenda of the next session of the Council.
Dr. NITOBE said that the Japanese Delegation to tho Assembly had received from Tokyo authorisation to make a statement on the amendments to the Protocol which they had proposed. This authorisation had, however, arrived toe late for the statement to be made at the last session of the Assembly. He now wished to know whether an opportune moment for the publication of this statement would bo provided by the publication of the proposed article on the Protocol*
The SECRETARY GENERAL said it was very hard to form an opinion, without knowing the terms of the statement.
Dr. NITOBE having indicated that the statement was encouraging, it was agreed by the meeting that the sooner it was issued, tho better, and that there was no need to await any special occasion for its publication.
Damo Rachel CROWDY enquired whether, as only 20 States had, so far, formally accepted the invitation to the 2nd upturn Conference any further action should be taken. The SECRETARY GENERAL thought that it would be wise to wire to the remaining States.
/I
iaaGua mf nations»
Directors Meeting Ho. 123
MOTTOES Qg THE DIRECTORS1
meeting,
Wednesday, October 15th, 1924 at 3,30 p.m„
PRESENT :	The Secretary-General
Sir Herbert Ames Dr e van Hame1 M, Comert
lame Rachel Crowdy M. Loon Pufour &-■>. Az oar ate Drc Norman White Eriis
M, Oproscu Me Denis M. Romein
Mr. Wilson (Secretary)«
1.	The Secretary-Genorol said that a telegram had been received from the British Government relative to the disagreement between the British and Turkish Governments on the meaning of the expression "status quo" in the decision on the"Irak frontier adopted by the Council on September 30tho The telegram asked that steps should be taken to convoke immediately a meeting of the Council» As this request had.not been made under Article 11, the Secretary-General had referred it to the President, He had suggested that the President might convoke the Council for an indefinite date, but that before the meeting the Rapporteur, Mr, Branting, might bo asked to get into touch with the two parties
It might sc happen that an,
agreement might be arrived at and the mooting rf tho Council avoided.
2,.	H. Lorn bufe nr said that tho Committee cf Exports on Double Taxation and Pis eel Evasión would moot in Genova cn October 20th. Tho mooting would bo attended also by Mr. Clemonsen, as delegate of tho Sub-Committee of the Transit Committee on Ports and Maritime Navigation,
3.	Sir Herbert Amos said that in spite of the present affluonco of the league’s treasury, it was necessary to remind certain directors that they had nearly ¿cached the limit of their expenditure for the year,
4.	Sir Herbert Ames said that tho surplus for this year would probably suffice to pay the outstanding costs for the now building of the International Labour Office and, with tho money from the Argentine, the construction of the new Conference Hall.
This situation might load to criticism and he thought that it would bo wise for directors to realise that the surplus was due net to rvor-budgotting but chiefly to three causes -profit on the exchange, interest, and payment of arrears.
5.	Dr. Norman White spoke of tho forthcoming meeting of the Pan-American Sanitary Conference at Havana, He had Just received information which showed that the United States Government intended to submit to the Conference a draft treaty embodying a Pan-American sanitary maritime code. The draft code contained proposals practically identical with those put. forward by Dr. Norman White for tho Par East - proposals which the Office international at Paris had recently declared to bo impracticable, The fact that American countries, most of them
-3-
Me mb o y s of tho League, were to consider, without any reference to the League, the adoption of a most important Maritime Sanitary Convention was most disquieting. Certain Par Eastern States would probably wish later to adhere to the Pan-American Cede .
M« Denis thought some solution of the difficulty might be found by bringing within tho purview of tho discussion cn tho general sanitary convention which was to take place at Paris the question of regional conventions.
It was agreed that Dr. Norman White should discuss the question with the Secretary-General.
LEAGUE
NATIONS
00
OF
Directors’ Meeting No.124
MINUTES OF THE DINEOTOE3 * MEETING. '.le .ne s day, Octol ir 2cnd, 1 >24.
PRESENT:
The SECRETARY- GENERAL. Dr. NÏTOBE.
Sir HERBERT AMES.
Dr, van HAMEL.
Dane Raohel CRO’/DY.
LI. fc CHERT.
M. RAEPARD. tii Leon DUFOUR.
Mr. GILCHRIST.
"	Dr i Nor man ' VHITEi
îi. ROME IN.
M. MATTHENET.
Mr. WILSON, Secretary*
1. The SECRETARY-GENERAL said that the Members of the Council had agreed to hold an extraordinary Session at Brussels on Monday, October 27th. The chief item, on the Agenda was the disagreement between the British and the Turkish Governments concerning the meaning of the "état actuel” which the two parties had on September 30th, promised before the Council to preserve. The Turkish thesis that thi3 was the line actually occupied on 30th September seemed to be untenable.
On the other hand, according to the Turks, the British contention iihst what was meant was the line occupied at the time of the signing of the Treaty of Lausanne was more favourable to the Turks. Unfortunately, it was by no means agreed what the Lausanne line was.
It seemed therefore that an offer might be made to the two Parties that the Commission of Investigation, which it was hoped would be appointed by the meeting of the Council,should fir3t be called on to settle this preliminary question, .As this would in reality be rather a futile task in view of the
-2
fact that the whole question of the frontier would presumably be settled in a few months, and perhaps the two Parties 'would appreciate this and not insist.
2« The 1.-1C3 iTAHY-GPFJH.Jj explained that he had been invited to send to Isir.et Pacha a personal telegram protesting arainst the expulsion of certain Greeks from. Constantinople, which was alleged to be contrary to the provisions of the Convention on the exchange of populations. The leeretary-General had. thought that, constitutionally, it wou3d.be very difficult for him to do this, ’hat seemed best was that the Hired Commission should meet in Plenary Session and decide. He was glad that he had taken this cautious attitude as he saw from the newspapers that the Mixed Commission had actually mot on October 16th, but had not reported on this particular question. It seemed very likely that it had an inner history which should be known before any further action was taken from Geneva.
It had been suggested to the Greeks that they might either raise the question under Article 13. or that they might ask the Powers signatories to the Treaties of Lausanne to bring it before the Council as a danger of infraction of the minority provisions of that Treaty.
3. -	The ;::CPTh,PY-G::TT :HHI said that the President of the Permanent Advisory Committee had asked the President of the Council to place on the Agenda the question of the choice of an expert from one of the ‘Status neighbouring to Bulgaria, in conformity with the scheme of military investigation.
4.	The SHOPJT~-iY-GHPJRAL said tnat the provisional
Agenda of the meeting of the Council to be held at Home contained Id luestions,	Ee asked the Directors, to
prepare, aa soon as possible, the documents and the
Henorts. If Penorts were sent to Pnp-orteurs and circulated 14
days "before the Session pf-the Council much unnecessary discussion would be avoided.
5.	iir. GILCHRIST asked whether a speoial effort could not be made to print as early as possible the Minutes of the First and Third Committees of the last Assembly.
It was stated that these efforts were already being made, and that they would be redoubled.
6.	M, ROME IN said that the Railway Sub-Committee was nov; in session in Paris. It was dealing with questions of improved communications with Geneva and of possible reductions in railway rates for the Secretariat. The first question might be treated with some success, but hardly
the seoond.
7.	M* ROMEIN said that the Committee to investigate the
Oder dispute would soon proceed to Berlin and Warsaw.	Its
Report would be submitted to the two Sub-Committees of the Transit Committee concerned.
In reply to the Secretary-General, M. Romein said that the task of the Committee was at this stage one of conciliation. If it failed it would be necessary for the Court to arbitrate.
8.	Sir HERBERT AMES said that the entertainment fund for the year would soon be exhausted. He enquired whether the prevision of tea to Committees sitting at tho Secretariat, which was a heavy charge on this fund, was necessary?
Directors agreed that it was.
The SECRETARY-GENERAL thought that a shrinkage in the entertainment fund due to the provision of tea to Committees might reasonably bo made good by a transfer.
He suggested in future that under the heading ’’Entertainment Fund" there should be a sub-heading with an estimate for ’’Teas for Committees”,
-4-
Duiiic Rachel CROUDY said that the figure quoted as the cost poy Jiead for these teas, namely* 75 centimes* was obviously much too high. Could not a contract be made with Mr. Hotop for the supply of the teas?
9.	Sir Herbert ¿iMES asked whether, 80/S of the contributions of the League for the current financial period having been received* efforts should be. made to encourage the remaining payments«
The 3ECRET.SJRY-GENERAL thought that it would be right to send out about the beginning of December as inconspicuous an invitation as possible.
10.	M, Leon DUFOUR Said that the Economic and Financial Section in collaboration with the Disarmament Section, had reproduced for the Economic Committee with a view to the work of the Co-ordination Committee, the texts of the proposals hitherto made with regard to the economic blockade.
11.	In reply to a question, Dame Rachel CEOWDY said that the British Government had withdrawn a suggestion which had been brought to the notice of oortain Directors that the first Opium Conference should be postponed-.
IS.	Dr= NITQBE said that he would be leaving for Japan in a week's time and that he would be glad if Directors would inform him of a,ny matters which he could usefully discuss with the Members of the Japanese Government, all of whom ho know personally.
13.	Professor RuPPnRD said that a Cession of the Mandates Commission would begin on the following day*
14.	Professor RüîPARD said that the Library had a certain amount of money still at its disposal for the current year, and suggested that Directors should send to it lists of books which it was considered necessary that the Library should have.
The UECRETARY-GEHERML said he agreed to this but no unnecessary expenditure should be made.
I¿A~GT1E 01* HATT caí s.
37
ir oc tors1 Hooting Ho .125.
idontial,
III HU TE 3 OH THE PIREOTORS1 HE5TIEG
Wodnesday. F oro rib or 5 th, at g ,50 p„m,
Prosent;
Th
Pr
3i
H.
II, Pr Dr Pr Hr II, II „ Hr Hr
o Secretary-Gonoral. ofossor Attolico. r Herbert .¿¿nos , liant on::.
C onort.
cross or Rrppard,
, Rsjehman.
. van Hanoi,
. Gilchrist, ïi6 on Bui on r .
II arad a » c Penis.
. \/ilson (Secretar;/) ¿
1. Tho 3ECRE TAHY-GEIIHRAl said that tho Brussels Session of the C orne il had been successful. The cuestión on tho agenda relating to tho Iraq frontier had boon settled. Tho two parties concerned scorned more or loss satisfied with tho solution.
There soeraod no doubt that the Turkish Government loyally intended to withdraw its troops from the smell area from which it was required to do so, although it was perhaps cuestionable whether tho Government would have sufficient authority over its local authorities to carry out the withdrawal.
The Commission of Throe, which had been appointed to examine the question of the frontier, will meet at Genova on IIovember 131 Ho personally hoped that before proceeding to Iraq, the Commissio vrould hear at London and Angora tho points of view of the two Governments. The final report of tho Commission would thus carry most weight.
2.	Tho SECRET AHÏ- G3 HEIHJi said that tho Council at its Brussels
Eos si on had reluctantly cancelled the meeting of the Council
—• 2 »-»
Committee fixed for IT ov ember lVt'h, and had decided to exauino at its Homo Session the questions before that Committee. Ho thought of suggesting to the llombors. of tho Council that they should bring with then* to Hone thoir substitutes for tho Council Committee t so that tho Committee could, if noccssai'y, moot
immediately after tho Council. Eo was consulting Dr» Bones on the pointc
3.	Tho provisional agenda of the 32nd Session of tho Council was discussed» It was decided that tho questions of agreements
to be made with regard to the establishment of tho French Institute of International Co-operation and tho Italian similar offer should bo placed provisionally on tho agenda, though it was doubtful whether it would bo ready fer discussion before the coming IjC ssi on»
Wither of aronco to 12 ib) (private manufacture of arms) the 3ECHSf.nvY-GBl]liEjJj said that the report on this subject should doal with the question of tho organisation which should replace the Temporary Hixed Committee for tho execution of the decisions of tho Council on this and on kindred subjects. It seemed clear that tho Co-ordination Committee would be tho most suitable body.
It was decided that tho following items should be added to tho agenda
Tho reports of tho Coninissionors-Gonorul for Hungary and Aus tri a.
Invitation to tho Permanent Court of International Justioo and International labour Orgnnisation, to submit reports to bo transmitted to tho Assembly, together with the report on the' work of tho Council.
Transfer in tho Budget (for Printing and Treaty Series).
List of Rapporteurs to tho Council for 1925.
(Directors wore asked to notify tho ..meretcry-Gcneral of any changes they wished made) .
4.	Professor ATTOLICO asked whether, as an exception justified by special circumstances, there might not uo published with tho records of tho last assembly, the Uinutos of the Fourth mub-Conmi^ too of the Third Commit»toe, where tho security —nd JiSc-rm.j. ion. a
3
Glaucos ox the Protocol had "boon discussed .
If necessary, thoy
nicht bo published confidentialljr for the me bub-Commit toe and fox' or;r own rocords.
ox
the
Dr. Van IiALfiL said
too which had discussed
cided at the bo ginning kept. Ho had collocto
thaz tho ünb-Connittoc of the P'irst Gonnit— tno first part of the Protocol, had doof its nooting that no minutes should bo i, so far as possible, the various proposals
b x on gh t b of o re development of fhe HLjCilL the minutes of c orrospon ding
the hub-C omit toe, which gave some idea of the the Protocol, but there was no other record, hmf-GHIfiyJj thought it very difficult to publish the bub-C onni t too of the Jhird Committee, as the Cub-Commit too of the First Commit too had not kept
minutes. In any case, he could sanction the publication only
if a r finest wore raado by a lie rub or of the league.
Professor FniPPAHD thought that publication would bo
dangerous, as it night load to conflicting interprotaticans of tho taut of the Protoool, Delegates night say that if they
he
on own th
mch and such had been tho moaning of tho bub-
C omit too, they would have spoken differently in tho discussion of tho Protocol before tho Assembly.
Dr. Van HA1TEX. said that, in the vent of a dispute on interpretaticn bofox-o the Court, tho intention of tho bub-Connittoo would not be a valid argument. Hovortholoss, it night bo of use to Governments seeking information with a view to tho ratification of tho Protocol to know what the bub-Commit-
too had said«
Tho bSCl£'MRY-GDHI?..D concluded that at present it would bo best to send a reminder to those i.Icribors of the Sub-Conuittoc which had not sent in a correction to tho minutes, without stating
vix o th o r i t wa s
intended to publish then or not
/
■ JL -
^^ DUi CUR s aid ohat the Committee on the Allocation L'i axpensos had at a recent meeting, allotted its quota to the Dominican republic, and had distributed, chiefly by the r. duct ion of the quota of certain States which had made claims, the money mad-., available by the Argentine payment.
,	M* Leon DUFOUR said that the Cpmmittoe on Double Taxation
and Fiscal Evasion had prepared a text on fiscal evasion which would be considered at its next meeting, and then submitted to the Financial Committee*
Mr. GILCHRIST said that Mr. Swoetscr would sail from the United States on November lbth, and n vre.k before the sailing ho would be at Washington where his services would be at the disposal cf Directors.
Dr. van HAM3L, having returned from Holland, said that there was a strong movement in. that country to die 1 lew the Danish example of disarmament. Public opinion had been greatly impressed by the League, report on the effect of poisonous gases There was much discussion of the Protocol. An aspect cf this question which was given prominence was that it was necessary for small nations to maintain a certain scale of armaments to carry out the obligations of the Protocol.
9.	Dr. RAJCHMAM said that in Poland also, there was great
interest in the Protocol, and that the Minister of Foreign Affairs had mode a speech in which ho said that it was th intention of the Government to base its foreign policy on co-operation with the League of Nations. Ho had obtained a majority of 40 votes for this policy, the German minority supporting him. There was a change in the attitude of Poland to the League, which was now being regarded not chiefly as a tribunal for the settlement of questions to the detriment of Poland, but as a field for common international action.
1C.	3ir Herbert-	AIC3 raised th	.e <	question wheth	er the
dele	ration which	■ras to proceed	to	Ilcsnl should	be insure
The	cj-’q-; y~:~>Y-f' -'	' T"LT: 11, appoin t e d	. a	Corr.it tee of	IT ofes s or
Attolico, oir Herbert Aires' ami LI. ilantoux to consider tliia question,
LE.GUE 0? N/vTIOFS
onfidential.
Diroc t or s 'I-.Zeeting Ho. 126..
DR 'ET MINUTES VEDFSSD..Y,
0? THE DE ECTOR 31 MEETING NOVEMBER 26TH, 1921 AT
2.30 p.m.
Present:
Secretary-General, Professor Attolico,
Sir Herbert fiir.es,
Ivl. Man tons,
Professor Rap card,
Dr.Van Hamel,
M.- Madariaga,
M. Haas,
Mr. Gilchrist,
M. Leon Dufour,
Mr. Cummings,
Mr. Harada,
M. Denis,
Mr. Purves, Secretary.
l)	The SECRETAEY-GENER.’L referred to his visit to London and
Paris. His impression was that the British Government's request to postpone the consideration by ifche Council at the Rome Session of the Protocol for the specific settlement of international disoutes was a perfectly genuine on© and was the natural result of the political situation, The present British Government was strongly imbued with the idea of close co-operation with the Dominions. The Protocol, in the view of the British Government, was the most important international measure proposed since
the Covenant, and the Government could not engage in a
•ft
discussion of questions relating to the Protocol until it had consulted the Dominions. He considered that the Government was,
-2-
generally speaking, "by no means hostile to the Protocol; its views were entirely neutral, and it would consider the Protocol on its merits.
He had "been assured by M. Harriot in Paris that Prance, having signed the Protocol, intended to support it. His own feeling was that the British Government would probably pronose certain modifications and that it was unlikely that the DiS8.rrr.8rr.ent Conference would be held next year, but that there would be n discussion at the next Assembly regarding the rr.odifics.tion of the Protocol. The British Government fully realised the necessity of constructive, as opposed to destructive, criticism.
In reply to a question, he said that there was no indication of hostility to the Protocol, on the part of official circles in the Dominions, although certain newspapers, both in London and the Colonies, had published unfavourable articles. The Foreign Office had sent out two very strong Beuter telegrams pointing out that the request for postponement did not in any way imply the rejection of the Protocol. The fsct that the British Foreign Secretary was himself going to the Home meeting of the Council showed that the present Government attached the greatest importance to the league.
Dr. Van HAIiEL said that the general opinion in Holland was that the Protocol had been definitely rejected by the British Government. All friends of the league in Holland were glad to note that Lord Cecil had been appointed llinister, but the fact that he was not appointed member of the Council at the Home Session was regarded a3 a sign that the British Government had adopted an unfavourable attitude towards the League. He wondered whether the Council could not make a
3-
statement that the Protocol had not been rejected.
2) The SECHETA3Y-GENERAL wished to have the views of the Directors regarding the status of the members of the Co-ordination Committee. This point had not yet been definitely decided. The Committee was to consist of representatives of the Council, i.e. the Council Committee,and members of the Technical Organisations, the Permanent Advisory Commission and the International labour Office,
He wished to know whether all the members of the Co-ordination Committee should be on an equal footing or if only the representatives of the Council should have powers to take Lecisions, the remaining members acting as technical advisers.
After some discussion it was agreed that only the representatives of the Council should have power to take decisions and that tho other members would act as assessors.
M. HAAS said that he woulA take up with the President of the Transit and Communications Committee the question of appointing an expert for the Co-ordination Committee.
3} M. HAAS stated that some progress had been made with regard to an improved train service between Geneva and the European capitals. Ho modification was possible in the time table between Paris and Genova, but better connections with London had been secured through Lausanne.
Professor ATTOTICO said that he would personally take up the question of improved communications with Home at the forthcoming Council session.
4)	M. HAAS stated that a Conference was shortly to be held
for the co-ordination of the long-distance telephone service.
He would ask that Geneva should be given the same consideration as the European capitals, in view of its international importance.
-4-
5)	Sir Herbert AIL:,3 seid that he world send, out early in December a statement regarding expenditure for the period ending November 30th,
He would send out another circular requesting Directors to call the attention of Members of Section responsible for expenditure that all accounts should be sent in to the Financial Director in December, Failure to do so entailed much unnecessary work fox the Financial Section,
6)	Sir Herbert AMES raised the question of long and expensive cablegrams concerning non-urgent questions to States which often failed to send a reply.
After some discussion it was decided that enquiries should be made as to the possibility of communicating with South American States by letter telegram, to be relayed by better or cable from. New York, Panama or any other suitable place.
7)	Professor RAPP/3D recalled the incident in which
Mr. Aberson, a journalist, had recently obtained a confidential document regarding the Mandates Commission’s Report on the Palestine Mandate. He was unable to account for the leakage, He suggested that journalists obtaining confidential documents by clandestine m.eans should be excluded for, say, three months, from the Secretariat.
Professor ATTCDICO said that, when discussing secret matters, a Commission should take the same precautions as the Council, The number of subordinate staff having access to the Committee Room should be restricted to a minimum figure.
The Secretary might perhaps warn members of the Commission to take precautions.
-5-
i.ir. CULc.ilifGS auested that the tables should bo cleared as soon as a Conrrission adjourned. The Distribution Service were soir.etirr.es deceived by journalists. He proposed that a rule should be made that the Distribution Service should not
issue documents to persons not connected with the delegations or Secretariat unless they were provided with express authorisation from a delegation or a member of the Secretxr iat„ He did not think it possible to exclude journalists from true Secretariat.
It was decided that Hr. Cummings should see Hr. Aberson and ask him for an explanation.
8)	The SDC2ET AH Y-GE K3RAD said that, as the contents of telegrams frequently leaked out to the Press prior to their communication to the Council, he intended to point out to the Council the desirability of issuing such telegrams
simultaneously to the Press*
9} The SECRETARY-GENERAL stated that official replies regarding the admission of Germany to the League had still to be received from two Stetes.
10) Professor RAPTARD stated that the Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Swiss League of Nations Union had acted as Renoortour on the question of the increase of Switzerland’s military expeniiture. ft protest had been made in the Executive Committee and a motion of censure had
been sent to all local branches of the Union.
11)	M. DUECUE stated that negotiations for the Greek Refugees Settlement Loan were still in progress* The greater part of the loon would orobably be taken uo in Great Britain and the United States=
-6-
12). M. MAHTOTJX referred to the protest received by the Secretariat from the President, of the Egyptian Parliament. The protest had been addressed both to the League and to all Parliaments and it was not an appeal to the League. Ho feared that if the document were distributed by the Secretariat it mi!?ht encourage certain circles in Egypt in the supposition that the League was entitled to take up the question. if any communique were issued to the Press, it should be strictly confined to a statement to the effect that the Secretary-General had received the document.
The SECiiET^niY-GEHEHxlL said that ho had decided not to distribute the protest to the Members of the League, but merely to give out the document to the Press. He emphasised that, as it emanated not from the Egyptian Government but from the Egyptian Parliament, he could not constitutionally distribute the document to the Council. He had accordingly merely acknowledged its receipt. It was cloar that Egypt not being a Member of the League was not entitled to apply to the League under Article 17 of the Covenant.
The only method by vh ich the question could be brought before the League was for a Member to draw the attention of the Assembly or the Council to the matter under Article 11.
M. DENIS suggested that the Council should he informed of the receipt of the document. There was danger lest the view should become prevalent that a document of this importance was merely filed in the archives at Geneva and ho further notice t aken of it.
Dr. van HxdvlEL feared lost the LeaguoTs prostige would suffer if 20o explanation of the technical reasons for which the League could not deal with the question were issued to the Press,
-7-
He proposed thot such exp lanations should also "be given in the letter of acknowledgment.
M. RAPPARD was also apprehensive of possible damage to the league’s prestige. He enquired whether it would be possible for the British Representative to state at the forthcoming Rome Session the grounds on which Great Britain was unable to submit the question to the league.
Prefossor nTTOlICO thought that it was impossible to ciroulate on teohnical graunds . Perhaps the President of the Orunoil might make a statement xxx of the technical explanations to the Press after the Council Session.
Mr. CUMMINGS stated that copies of the telegram had been given to the Press and that the technical facts had been explained verbally.
After some discussion on the desirability of issuing a brief and carefully worded communique, the SECRETARY GENERA1 stated that he would reserve his decision.
LEAGUE OF NATIONS,.
"7
sj
Confidential f
Page L Title: Pago 5, Item IQ.,
Directors1 Meeting Wo.126 Errata*
Geneva,
December 2nd, 1924«
ERIUTh,
Delete the v/ord "Draft11 before the v,rord "Minutes"t
The following correction has been received from Professor Rappord:-
"May I be allowed to correct a passage of the draft minutes of the Directors' Meeting of November 26th, which shows mo that I was misunderstood in what I said concerning the action by the Executive Committee of the Swiss League of Nations Union.
The decision of the Executive Committee, to which something in the nature of a motion of censuro had been presented, v/as nnt to accept that motion but, on the contrary, to put it on one side and inctead to inform all the local branches of the. Swiss League of Nations Union of the discussion which had taken place cn the subject and to ask them to
consider in the course of the Winter the general problem of the relations between international
arbitration and Switzerland's national defence«"
LEAGUE Ql? MaTIGîJ S
Directors* ¿.eoting Ko«127.
Minutes of the directors* Meeting Wednesday, December 3rd, 1924, at 3,30 p.m.
The Secretary-General
The deputy Secretary-General
Six uorbert ..mes
M. lien toux
Prof, ¿vaopard
Dr. van Hamol
M. Madariaga
K. Comert
M. Opresou
k.	hen ting
Li. Dufour
Major Buxton
Mr. Purves, Secretary
The SMCRiiTaRY-G	referred to the Agenda for the forth
coining Rome session of the Council. There Yvere 37 items on the Agenda and he hoped that the Council would find it possible to hold morning and afternoon meetings on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, December 8th, 9th and 10th.
After some discussion it was decided that the item ’’Development of International Lavf1 should be placed earlier on the agenda of the meeting. kith regard to the item ’’Jury of Architects: Appointment of 2 substitutes” it v*as agreed that a first and second substitute should be appointed to hhecalled in, if necessary, in that order, and that if there ms a voting tie in the jury, the 1st substitute would be asked to form part of the jury and vote.
M. RAPPARD stated that the Permanent Mandates Commissions report was not yet issued but it contained nothing controversial He noted that it was down for discussion on the Tuesday, but, if the report was not actually out by that day, the discussion could, he supposed, be postponed until a later meeting.
Confidential
Present:
In reply to a question the SRCRET.&RY-GBHHBAIi said that the item "Arbitration, security and reduction of armaments" could only be removed from the agenda by a formal decision of the Council. He presumed that the British representative would make a statement on this matter during the discussion of the first item, namely, the "Adoption of the .agenda."
M. HANTOUX stated that the ,jreek Government had informed him that it would if possible, forward the documents on the exchange of Greek and Turkish populations to Geneva before the Council session, while the documents on Moslems of Albanian origin would be sent straight to acme. He had not yet received the dossier on the request of the Mixed Commission foi a decision by the Permanent Court of International Justice.
It was decided tht I... Bend rami s should be informed that it was urgent that the documents should be s?ent in good time with a view to the early discussion of these questions;
Sir Herbert AMIS said that arrangements had bear made to grant an advance of money to cover the subsistence allowance, eto. of all officials going to Rome. ue trusted that Dir- ctors would ensure that members of section requiring advances would take steps to obtain such advances before leaving Geneva.
The SnCRuT^RY-CLHiCiS'xL stated that M. TJnuen would represent Sweden in place of M. -¿ranting, who had fallen ill.
The SMCRxaTAKY-GRIiEHiii was inclined to be optimistic with regard to the success of the Second opium Sourer once. He believed that ..hen the Conference came to deal with the substance of tho matter, they would find that all delegates were animated by goodwill. He was confident that the American Delegation would bo prepared to accept a compromise on certain points and did not share the view that they would demand the acceptance of their proposals y.ithout amendment.
-s-
5).	The SUO-iüïvUÏY- GejlfiklAl said that he had received from the
U.S. Government a reply to his letter forwarding the Protocol for the Pacific Settlement of International Disputes. He had hoped that the Government might see its way to making a sympathetic reference to the declaration concerning the outlawry of war. The present reply, however, was confined to acknowledging the note, transmitting the copy of the Protocol, and noting that the Protocol was open inr signature by all non-Member States.
6).	M* M/J)ARIAGi said that he had recently seen M, liieto who
appeared to take a great interest in the trade in arms,
M. liieto believed that if the Mexioan Government were given full information on the question they would, be prepared to send
represent?.Liges to the Conference. It was probable that the present Mexican Minister at Brussels, who was favourable to the league, would shortly be appointed Minister of Finance or of the Interior in Mexico,
The SECBBTABY GEIIERAL stated that Mexico w as about to apply for membership of the International Labour Organisation.
He was hopeful that if Greet Britain, recognised Mexico, the latter country would apply for membership of the League.
7).	Sir Herbert AMES stated that the arrangements for insuring
the members of the Irak Commission had been completely successful He had been unable to secure a policy insuring them against flying risks, but the members would mc^ probably be able to take out locally a special policy for each flight.
8).	Sir Herbert AMD3 said that he had received a letter from
M. Bignami putting forward a scheme under ?»rhich new States «joinJfclg the League would ¿jay a
special contribution in order to
-4-
counterbala.noe the contributions already paid by older members. The new members would receive a certain snare in the tangible assets of the League. II. Bignami also suggested that new members might be asked to pay rente. 1 on the league's real estate, which had been acquired by the contributions of older members. The scheme was of course submitted by M, Eignami in his private oapacity and not as representing the views of the Italian Government.
After some discussion it was decided that the scheme should be referred first to the Legal Section for a report on the legal aspects and after consideration by the Secretary Genera to the Supervisory Commission,
9).	M. OPHESCTJ referred to his recent visit to France,
Belgium, Holland and Great Britain, The object of his journey was to study the possibility of closer collaboration between the LeagueTs International University Office and the National University Offices. He had hoped that it might be possible to hold a small conference in 1925, but the prospects were not very reassuring. The Belgian University Office had no official character and that in Holland had no funds. The most active were the French, British and American Offices and the directors of the two American Offices in Paris and London had evinced much goodwill. The directors of the French and British Offices lid not at present appear to be prepared to take part in a conference.
When in England he had conferred with Professor Gilbert Murray regarding the foundation of a British National Committee. The British Government had stated that it was unable
f
to provide any funds and had suggested that the Universities' Bureau for the British Empire should be consulted. He had discussed the matter with the Director of/
the Bureau
-5-
the Bureau and Professor Hurray was to see the President of the Board or .iduc.ition. There were rood prospects of the foundation of a British Committee.
as rewards the Paris Institute of Intellectual Cooperation, li. CPrescu had noted that there was now much less antagonism to this idea and the international character of the institute was generally recognised.
He had observed that great interest was taken in Oxford in the Committee on Intellectual Cooperation, but rather from a theoretical than a practical standpoint. He suggested that closer relations were essential with the great universities in all countries.
If. COI.2RT said that his visit to Poland had been most satisfactory. The Polish Government were particularly favourable to the League and the foreign Minister had given the Protocol for the Pacific Settlement of International Disputes the first place in his programme, ¡.lore active propaganda was essential and the Polish Leaguo of Nations Union, the constitution of which was to be amended, would take measures for this purpose. It was desirable that the polish Government should be given all possible enc ouragement.
M. DUPOUR stated that Mr. Howland, of New York, had agreed to replace M. Morgenthau as Chairman of the Greek Refugee Settlement C ommission,
Mr. Howland, who was a lawyer by profession, was eminently suited for this work, as he had represented the uaerican Red Cross in Great Britain, Prance and Barbie during the war. He would arrive in Europe early in January.
There were excellent prospects of tha success of the loan. M. Dufour had received information that the U.o.^. had taken 10 million dollars worth or about one-fifth of the total.
CONFIDENTIAL CIRCULARS
1924
nos 1-18
LEAGUE CF NATIONS.
qj pf.ii.buted to Under-p^TTo'tgries-Gori e r a.l iiid Directors »
i
Confidential Circular 1.1924»
Geneva ,
January 15th,1924-
THE BOX PEACE AW/ID.
-------------------- ,2
Letter from Mr. Sweetser.
Lear Sir Eric:
I should like, If I may, to v,x ito you ratlior fully about the 13ok Peace Award just announced in the United States.
That award has turned out cxtraoidinarily to the advantage cf the League of Nations. Its effect on public opinion and even cn the political campaign cannot possibly be calculated at the moment. To my mind it is the most important development in the League struggle et homo since the defeat of the Covenant in the Senate end it may well mark, and I believe docs mark, the definite turning cf the tide.
First, lot me say that I cm deeply surprised r t the result As a matter of fact, I had looked forward to it with a good deal of misgiving insofar as the league was concerned, for it seemed inevitable that some kind of weak compromise plan would be found which would meet the requirement of being "practicable" , that is to say, acceptable to the Senate. It was too much to hope that the Committee would have tie courage to turn heck the pages cf history, refute oven the statement of Coolidge that for the US the League ''is a closed incident", and return to the original proposals practically as discussed in the Sons to.
Yet that is whet has been done. The plan comes out squarely for American entry into the Court end American co-operation with the League under certain conditions. All the progress that has been made in the past three years in interesting America in specific activities has bom fruit and is capitalized, as I have always urged that it would bo, as precedent for broader action still.
The plan as so far reported is curiously .like various suggestions which you may remember Laving seen. It starts from the same hypotheses, follows the same policies, and comes to the so mo objectives. In other words it puts off for the moment full American membership* extends the co-operation already effected to the next natural stop, and looks finally to full membership on certain conditions deeply grounded in American theory and policy. The proposal, therefore, is tie same kind of gradual, gentle step-by-step evolu.-" ticn which has always seemed to me the only practicable method of interesting America in the league and indeed in general international co-operation. i t
Yot/is at the same time a revolution also. It throws the •^orgue issue, so many times declared dead, straight nt-c the forefront of public attention, and that too just on the ove of another political campaign. Inevitably it wil 1 bring forth ell kinds of criticism and bitterness but to my mind all that is an inevitable Part of whst now seems to me the beginning of the uphill fight to final success.
to
There are, I think, throe ways in which we should look at the matter: first, as to its significance in America, second as tts actual proposals, and third as to whet should he done here,
FILST, ITS 31 din FI CANOE IK AMSRICA.
It is difficult to exaggerate the effects of the Bok award in America, Public opinion has been interested in this contest as in almost no other rccont public activity. The prize of S100,000 was in itself a staggering one; the question at issue, that of American participation in world affairs most vital, and the jury consisting of men like Elihy hoot and Colonel House, the finest available in the country. Beyond all that, however, the publicity organization was superb in that ell the great national organizations, the churches, universities, woman's associations, press? etc were woven into one vest system. Over 270,OCC people wrote in for information and over 22,000 actually sent in plans.
Mo indication was given as to what sort of plan would win, In-terest was kept at high pitch so that the final announcement was keenly awaited. Many associations competed institutionally and many open conferences were held as to the best method of winning the prize.. Apparently, there was not much thought that the result would be a great League demonstration, though the Irreconcisblcs started a small propaganda against the project as a League trap.
The results evidently caught the majority of people unawares. Some of the Senate Bitter-enders immediately denounced the project and threatened an investigation. Some of the newspapers who had agreed to carry a ballot for a national referen/dum on the subject, refused when the nature of the project was announced, Public opinion seemed to split much as it had split cm the previous Lorgne issue, though this time the advantage was all positive.
The results are simply unpredictable. Here, on the very eve of the Presidential election, is a prooosal being submitted to popular referendum and carrying the endorsement cf men like Loot and House, which leads directly to American participation not only in the Court but in the league itself. Mot only has there be en a half years publicity and a publication in practically the entire press of the country, but many organizations arc definitely pledged to attempt to make the project effective.
Moreover, a huge national referendum has been organized where it is expected that 40,0O0,0G0 separate ballots will be c^st. The greatest national associations have given their mailing lists for this purpose and scores of the biggest newspapers and magazines have agreed to print the ballot, In other words, for the first time in the history of the league dispute in America, there will be something like a national referendum cn this specific subject free from all other subjects. The results will be incalculable, all the more as the first reports show that 92 per cent of the ballots are In favour of the project.
There can be little doubt, therefore, tha t the peace elements of the country will pretty well range themselves behind the project as a definite j?oal on which to concentrate their efforts. That would seem to ‘rndyt'rfht the Democratic party will not bo able to drop the League, and indeed will not wish to drop it, as has so frequently been predicted. It should also mean that the he publicans will try to steer closer to it, juggling around perhaps with seme idea cf their association of nations or some other camouflage. In other words the League's position in the- next campaign has been tremendously improved, though it is still too early to say whether the League will be converted into one of the four or fivo issues. Personally,
X think notj as local affairs, particularly taxation, arc moro vital..
However that may ho, I think we may count as certain s vastly greater American willingness to participóte in League questions»
We will, 1 "car, h-'vc more visitors, more inquiries, more cranks; at the same time wo will find the Administration grcc tly strengthened in the cautions hut nevertheless, the consistent, policy of association with League work.
Second, the actual Proposals.
1 won’t attempt a long or a juridical analysis of the actual proposals hut will simply go through them in c broad way. In genera of course., os I have said, they build firmly on the present situatio, and on America; ’s traditional policies, and carry us on one step further. In a sense, too, they arc a. rephrasing of the original Lodge, Sena tc reservations, covering much the same ground hut in a different way.
1, To enter tic ^crmanei-t Court. This is, of course, ell to th good, particularly as it takes the wcurt issue back to the original proposals of President Harding, end *urely by inference from the rest cf the plan* destroys any idea of separating the Court from the league.
2f To extend the pr. sent American co-nperation, even to the Assembly and Council, without holding full membership. This is, cf course, a natural evolution, but a tremendous extension of the present system, and is, I need hardly say, a most gratifying advance
The conditions named do not seem desperate, yet they do pretty well represent the views of American public opinion, even amongst friends cf the League . They aro:
1. The acceptance of the league as instrumental for mutual counsel is excellent, while the various provisos are only such as are already included in the Covenant, namely, nen-inter trence in the internal affairs of other states, safeguarding of the ITonrce doctrine, /mcrican independence of hurepe, and reservation cf purely American questions. All those provisos could be accepted ox nogotic ted .
2.	The limitation of compulsion for violation of the Covenant to moral opinion rather than to Articles X and XVI is more serious and would require' careful consideration here. Undoubtedly, however that limitation well represents the average American view, even in pro-Leogue circles. He it noted, also, that two provisos follow, though whether or not alternative is not clear , first that the US would not accept these articles for itself, which I take it is all right and second that it would pr coo so their elimination or amendment, which/would be a matter of negotiation.
3.	The refusal to accept responsibility for tie Treaty of Versailles cannot be objected tc. 4
4.	The revision cf article 1 of the Covenant to admit any self-governing state : eeiving two-thirds of the Assembly’s vote, is clearly a move towards Germany by omitting the reference to a state’s having si own its willingness to live up te its internationa obligations. This, too, would ropr sent a common American point of view, for it will undoubtedly be vastly mere difficult to get American into the League with Germany out than in
■

- 4 ~
5,	The agreement to extend international law by conference or jurists committee is, of course , entirely in line with League de-„ires # If there is any mi gi c way of codifying that law more rapidly than is new actually being done in a score of ways, und ubtcdly the other nations would willingly seize upon it«
finally, let me mention Mr, Loot's closing statement in making the plan public, that the jury hoped that "the first fruit of the mutual counsel und corporation.., would he a general prohibition of the manufacture and sale of all materials of wax." That is, of course, the sense of the invitation of the Council to the US to • participate in the work of the TMC for a new St. Germain convention«
As this question has been ¿thus thrown up, net only by Mr. Root, but by the great agitation over the sale of arms to Mexico and the Introduction of a general prohibition into the Senate by Senator lobinson, Democrat, who was at Geneva last summer, the effect on the ¿¿ministration's consideration of this question s houle bo great.
THIRD, WHAT SHOULD BE THE POLICY HERE.
Of that I have no doubt. iVc should welcome the plan first as a real step to fulfilling the general desire for world peace . Re should stress that it bids fair to hoajjfl the breach between those cm both sides of the- ocean working to this great international objective and that it affords a common rollying-point after five years of this Union. I think, also, wo can afford to be moderately and modestly gratified.
Second, we should make it clear however, that this is not a final proposition, that it will not bo final until adopted by the US government and presented to the other nations for their consideration. That, it seems to me it should bo our great objective. We should have something to negociate with. For five years now people on both sides have boon seeking some kind of compromise but never yet has the American government boon able to agree on any suggestions ¡>x the fdP-jign governments been able to say whether they would or would ne' accept » Cnee the question is reduced to one of négociation, I arc sursit con, with goodwill, ho easily solved.
Thirdly, and consequently, I think we would make a mistake to analyze the actual program too microscopically « Undoubtedly the conditions would require study and discussion and could not he accepted offhand 5 indeed they might requite considerable effort for acceptance tut 1 think it would he a mistake to over-emphasise those difficulties While maintaining a dignified position that these suggestions would recuire some real effort on the part of the leneue, we do not want' to rouse an opposition to them by picking at therp. the way the Irreeon-cilablcs picked at the Covenant.
I have, of course, seen a number of people hero following pretty ïuich these general lines. The Associated Press can ied a "reaction” story to that effect, as did also the Hew York T-’mes Service, and the Chicago Daily Rows Service. The effect of those stories at homo is recabled to-day to the Chicago Tribune as good.
I hope I have'nt written too much at length, dust at the moment however, I am feeling very happy about the situation. I do think vie are beginning to go uphill at lest.
With kindest personal regards,
(Signed) ARTHUR SWEETSEjS.-
Mgtnbuted bo-	Confidential Circular 2.1124,
^rryfM Tacretaries Gnderal
^rL5pa~uireo tors.	Geneva, 7th. January, 1924.
THY BOK HTACY A7A3D.
Letter from Dr. Manley 0, Hudson.
3 i
LA’7 SCHOOL 0? HARVARD UMIVTRSITY, CAMBRIDGE, MASS,
17th. January, 1924.
Dear Sir Yrio,
I think you will be interested to know what the effect of the announcement of the Bok prizo plan has been.
At first, most of us were somewhat disappointed in that it does not call for immediate membership in the League of Nations.
I think the general idea was that the plan adopted would call for some kind of associate membership in the League. That was the purport of the plan which I myself presented, Nearly all of the League of Nations people in this country put in Plans, in order that we should be sure of impressing ourselves on the Jury. But the plan adopted seems to stop short of irradiate membership, and yet it does call for a large degree of cooperation.
We held a meeting in New York before the plan was published, but after it was decided upon, and agreed after some debate that we would support it. My later judgment is that we were too reluctant about giving it warm support from the beginning, Tor the country generally considers it a League plan, and the vote is coming to be taken as a test of the League of Nations strength.
The referendum is under way. I cannot say that it is Progressing very fast. I fear the number of votes cast will be greatly under the estimates which have been published. Bok himself
I
talked atj-out a referendum- of 60,000,000. The figure now used is 20,000,000. In my o wn judgment, it ’Will he nearer
1,000,000. But that is not the general view. An extraordinarily successful job of advertising has been done, and. it is remarkable that so many people should have been enlisted.
Of course the vote taken is going to favor the League,
I think, overwhelmingly. But this will be explains l by our opoonents on the ground that only the people who are in favor will do the voting. aiiA of course that is largely true.
The referendum will also be attacked on the ground that friends of the League will be repeaters. There is no adequate way, of course, of checking up to make sure that the same person does not vote twice. And although some duplicate voting may go on, I think it will not greatly impair the usefulness of the referendum.
It Is certain now that the publication of the plan has gone a long \/ay towards reviving interest in the League of nations in this country. People are talking about it. It is becoming a live issue. I should not bo at all surprised to see a big debate in progress during this year. And this is true, in spite of the fact that during the last six months of 1923, our stock was distinctly down,
I regret, however, that the plan is calculated to focus attention on the more absurd of American objections. To some extent the record of the League to date has been emphasised, but not sufficiently. It is a hopeful sign, however, that the discussion since the plan was published has not ranged itself
~3~
with reference to the details of the plan itself. It is rathe"': a discussion of the general urohlem of American ooonerationc
Corine- as it does on the eve of the work of the Committee investigating Gerrany1 s capacity to nay, the whole thing has moved very timely. The imminence of our presidential election is a handicap, hot I am sure it will not prevent the Bok plan from, having a very salutary influence throughout the country.
71 th warm, regards,
Sincerely yours,
(Signed) HANLEY 0. HUDSON.
Sir Eric Drummond, League of Nations, GENE V A. ' SYITZEEDATO.
r
32
LEAGUE 0? NATIONS.
Distributed to	Confidential Circular 3.1924=
Under-Seeretaries-
Gcnoral and Directors.	Geneva, 7th. January, 1924.
Ii otc by the Secretary- Gen oral..
The accompanying telegram, has been brought to my notice.
Should Monsieur Karl Krauss call at the Secretariat, and ask to see any Director, I feel that it would be a mistake that he should be received except by the Information Section, which is always prepared to give information with regard to league affairs to any member of the general public. Any requests made, therefore, by Monsieur Krauss should be referred to that Section.
(initialled) E. D.
Dusseldorf, 7 février 1924
La Ligue de 1’Indépendance lîheno-Hestphalienne, dont le chef est M- Matthès, a chargé U. Karl Krauss, avocat a Geneve,
0
de la représenter auprès de la Société des Nations pour
%	0	*
l’examen des problem.es intéressant les questions rhénanes.
(Havas)
cl] t3
V--
7
strIbutea to der Seeretardes noral and rectors »
40/3 04 2 91 /2 81S 0
U-ilJiv vjt u -
natio::s,
Confidential Circular 4,1924»
Geneva, Tel: runry 25th, 1924
TH5 IRE, 1113 0? LirS'.KHBo
ITote 07 the Secretary-General and
Memorandum by Dre Van Hamel:
i rest	0	bo	see	the
the	Leg	al	Sac	tion on
in c	onnec tion			with
Poli	tic	al	and	Administra
ig se	e a	11	pap <	ers
.gue	und	er	the	Treaty
the	fol	lov	/ing	1 0 0 -T M _ . ./ O
the Treaty of Lausannea
I consider it desirable that tl tive Sections should for the time b< connected with work falling tc the ] of Lausanne., I think therefore ths should be adopted;-
lo that work arising out of the Treaty cf Lausanne should go to the Section concerned, but that the Political an-1 Administrative Commissions Sections should be kept fully informed and see all oaoexs connected with the work»
2„ Papers which dO not appear to fall within the competence ox any particular Section should go in the first olace to the Political Section, who, in the same way, will keen the Administrative Section informed»
-2-
5.	That the first report of the Straits Commission should go to the Political Section, who will send copies of the various oarts of the report to the Sections which may be particularly interested therein.
It would, I think, be premature to come to any decision as to the corresoondence relating to the report of the Straits Commission. It would surely be wisest to wait till we receive the first report, and then be able to take a definite decision on the various points connected with it with full knowledge of its contents.
(Signed) E.P.
19th February, 1924.
THE TRM TIES CP ECUS .EUE YI. MKIOÏUIÎDÜM OH THE ,'ORK IEGUMBEHT OH THE LEAGUE,
The Secretary-General ashed the legal Section to maho a study cf the organisation of the vorh of the League in connection with the Treaty of Lausanne0 A draft was oreoared and submitted tc the various Sections concerned for their coments. These having now been received, the Legal Section has prepared a final Memorandum which is hereby submitted tc the Secretary-General,
Special notes are added ifi view of the organisation in the Secretariat of the verh connected with the matter»
1. I170ILEHTAL ,,ÎW OCCaSIOHaL FUDCJIOKS.
The worn of the League, provided for by the Treaty of Lausanne, is earthy incidental and occasional and oartiy of a standing nature „
The incidental and occasional functions given to the League consist mostly in arbitration oases of difference, decisions in case of points that may bo raised by States, nomination of commissioners, and so on*
In such oases the league will only have to tahe action on the initiative of one of the mantles concerned.. There is, therefore, no need for any preliminary organioat ion, apart from the fact that every Section should bo aware of th
possibilities which may arise..
The functions thus envisaged have been enumerated in Annex I according to the various categories:
_Æ_
(a)	Political and .Military (e.?. fixation of the . csul frontier; reclauations about the demilitarisation of the Thracian frontier); (b) Pi nance (e.g., the Ottoman Debt);
(c) transit (e»g. frontier rail.ays; r (d) Minor ities ;
(e) legal (e.gr« Mixed tribunal: amnesty)«
2.	SMiILDIMG .OHM 0? THE 1EAGC1. this work, which nay require ore ear -at ion from the very beginning, comprises three categories; (a) minorities,
(b)	health, and (3) Regime of the Straitsc It will be seen that the latter 00marises various ooints of view: (l) political, (2) military, (3) transit, a no (4) health«
I will now deal with the various subjects separately„
miiio:	7; T Vp ‘ CJ * . -L i J		 UJ	•			
The	area ty	of	Lausanne has organised	the prate	etion
;ies	in Tar	key	much on uhe same lines	that were	laid
down by the Minorities treaties* tho stimulations are contained in articles 37 to 45*
article 44 states that, as far .as non--toslcrr.
nationals of Turkey are concerned, the provisions shall to placed under the guarantee of the league of rations.
it the same time, the Treaty between the Principal allied and dissociated Powers and Greece, of august 10th, 192C (Sevres), has been brought into force. By this Treaty the. Minorities in Greece arc, on the same lines, 0laced under the protection of the league of nations,. article 45 of the Treat;/ 0 f lav cm/me racrocyer stimulates that the rights extended to non-Moslem minorities of Turkey will bo similarly conferred by Greece on her Moslem minorities^
The coming into force of the Treaty of Lausanne
nd its additional Conventions, thereby establishes the
League's protection of minorities in Greece*
£.	HEALTH.
Regular ocmmunicatior.s arc established between the Health Committee of the league ana health interests in Turkey. The Health Committee will receive reports on the werk of the Pilgrimage Co-ordination Co-amiss ion (which rooerts also have to be sent to the International Office of Public Health aid to each of the Governments concerned)»
The league may ash the Pilgrimage Go-ordination Commission for its ominion on questions in which it is concerned* (these arrangements have been laid down in Article 118)«.
-loreover, the annex to the Straits Convention, oar a graph 6, contains special rules as to the quarantine and prophylactic measures for warships and merchant shins, with or without a doctor on board. In so far as these provisions may come under the Straits Commission, whose work is under the ansoices of the League, the League may be connected with these matters.
(On this subject, olease see the nc::t chanter concerning the Straits Regime) „
3«
SIRA ITS AES I
which will come into force with ti
The Convention is based
Treaty, by which the- High Contract
to recognise and declare the orinc
and of navigation, by sea and by e
time of war, in the strait of the Dardanelles, the Sea ox liar, and the Bosnhorus.
ha s	been	1 aid	down	in		
of	14 th	July,	1923,			
Ire	aty	f Lau	on y|to p, kj cLJ.ijLatA •			
. Ar	tide	23 o	f the	Pe		e
,flr	°arti	es ha	ve agr	ee	d	
le	of fr	ccdcv	cx xr	a n	si	4- 0
, i	n t i v	e of	oeaoo	an	d	in
aor
-b-
Tke Preamble to the Contention states that the maintenance of that freedom of transit and navigation is necessary' to the general peace and commerce of the world.
This makes it clear that the -.eg ine of the a traits is partly of political and military concern, and partly of commercial importance.
The League of nations is chiefly concerned, ty the fact that article 15 of the Convention sa, s, that the otraits Commission which will be set up, will carry out its functions under the auspices of the League of nations and will address to the League an annual report, giving an account of' its activities and furnishing all information which may be useful in the interests of commerce and navigation-
The scone of the standing duties of the League in connection with the .egime of the straits is, therefore, dependent on the work of the Straits Commission.
In addition, the League is directly interested because the High Contracting Parties, "desiring to secure that the demilitarisation of the btraits and of the contiguous zones shall not constitute an unjustifiable danger to the military security or Turke„ , and th t no act or war should imperil the freedom of the Straits or the safety ox the demilitarised zones”, have agreed that, ”should the freedom of navigation of the -traits or the security o the demilitarised zones be imperilled by a violation of the provisions re 1-ting to freedom of passage, or by a ‘surprise
attack or s

oi war or threat of war", they will meet
such "violation, attack, or ocher act of war or threat of war, by all the means that the Council oi the League may decide for this purpose.”
H'
-7-
Licreover, the general, rights and obligations of the Contracting Parties under the Covenant of the league have been explicitly maintained - which means that the league might, if the necessity arose, have td take action under Articles 10 and 11 and 3 and 4 of the Covenant. (See Article 18 of the Straits Convention.)
Coming now to the question as to the specific action which may fall to the League in connection with the Straits Regime , it has already been said that, in the first place, this is determined by the action of the Straits Commission.
To a great extent the action of this Commission will have to be developed in practice. The stipulations contained in the Convention determining its action are not at ail clear, and it will depend on the practice which the Commission sets up and on the relations which it forms with the Turkish Government.
The Commission is composed of a Turkish President, and representatives of Trance, Great Britain, Italy, Japan, Bulgaria, Greece, Roumania, Russia, the Serb-Croate-Slovene State, and also of the United States of America and the independent littoral States of the Black Sea if they accede to the Convention. These Representatives will be paid by their respective Governments.
The work of the Commission is described as follows:-
Article 11 r> £ the Convention.
"The Commission will exercise its functions over the waters nf the Straits,"
Article 14 of the Convention.
"It will be the duty of the Commission to see that the provisions relating to the passage of warships and military aircraft arc carried out; these provisions are laid down in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of the Annex to Article 2".
Article 15 of the Convention.
"The «traits Commission will carry outfits functions under the auspices of the League of Nations, and will addrese^to the League an annual report giving' an account of its activities, id furnishing all information hich may be useful in^ the interests ^f commerce and navigation; wit this object in view tue Commis will place itself in touch with the departments of the Turkish lovernmant, dealing with navigation through the Straits."
son
o
- ö-
Artl'-le 15 of the Convention.
will be
su oh regula OÍ itci oas,
the duty of the Commission to proscribe as may be necessary tor the aocompcAishment
Strictly	sp eating	it	seer	Ïl S	that only the provision of
Article 14 lay	s a dire	ct	duty	on	the Commission, or gives
direct rights	to it, n	ame	iy.	to	supervise the application
of the provisions laid down in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of the Annex to Article 2. It will be seen that these paragraphs only form a part of the straits Regime, and do not, for instance, comprise the question of the demilitarisation of the zones regulated in Articles 4 to 8, or the provisions as t. the limitation of time and transit for Warships (No. 4 of
the	A V, V' n jLl- •_	to article	2} to stay	in the		ports	of	the btraits
and	eft	he Blacf bea	( ITo , 5) and	the	sp e	c ial p	rov	ris ions
re la	t ing	to sanitary	protection.-,					
	t.’-ixi	a strict into	rpretation,	thes	10 i.	atter	kb HU	jects would
not	come	within the s	cope of act	ivity	■ of	the ^	t ra	its Commissio
and,	con	se uently, no	t under the	ausp	ice	soft;	he	L 6 ogll c o i
r«-M l'rf C_1 'J J_	■-•ns.							
	In	the same way	it is not q	cite	ole	ar how	fa	r the right
of the C		amission to	■rescribe regulo		.tiens, eu		ch	as those
merit	ione	d in Article	1C, may go.	On	the	othe r	hand, however,	
Arti	ole	15 obliges fh	e Coramissio:	n to	rep	ort to	th	e League
annu	P 1 1 TT	all informat	ion which m	ay o e	us	eful i	on t	he interests
cf c	orme	rce and navig	at ion, whin	h see	ms	to via	en	its scope
from	the-	reporting pc	int cf view	rath	er	co nsid	erably.	
	It .	may therefore	be said th	Q t- X h	.e v	c rlc o f	th	e Commission,
such	G C! 1 d o	will bo cam	ed on under	the	aus	JJ IL tw 0 o	of	the League,
will	j_ , , Ü ..	a great exte	nt, depend ■	on it	s p	rao tic;	R,]-	developmentc
Lega	11'T 	J	however, it	would seem	that	the	whe le	ma	tier • • f
merchant		^navigation,	and ot o f	demi	1 4 + J	J_ 0	arisat.	ion	decs not
come	within its spher		e of action	•	The	sup e rvi s		ion as to
-9-
the carrying out of the provisions laid down by the Annex for that purpose rests automatically with the interested Governments, which, in practice, may 01 course, if the Commission consists of diplomatic representatives, mean that the matter will come tack; to the Commission itself in that form.
I will now give a summary cf the Straits Aegime which has teen laid down in the Convention.
Centain rules are laid down for the transit and navigation of commercial vessels and aircraft and of war vessels and aircraft, through the Straits, in time of peace and in time of war.
The Regime is the following:
I. TIKE Cl PEACE.
(a) Merchant Ye osels.
Complete freedom of navigation and passage by day and by night under any flag and with any kind of cargo, without any formalities, or tax, or charge, unless for services directly rendered.
Obligation:	communication to "Flag stations"
appointed by the Turkish Government.
(b) Military Vessels and aircraft.
Complete freedom of passage by day and by night under any flag, without any fomKLities or tax, but subject to certain restrictions as to the total force:
The Maximum force which any Pc er may send through the straits into the Hack Sea, not to be greater t .an that of the most powerful fleet of the littoral Powers on the Hack ~ea existing in that sea at the time of passage; with the proviso that the Powers reserve to themselves the ri6ht to send irKo the Black Sea, at all times, a force of not mere than a ships, of which no individual-Ship shall exdeed la,COO tons.
Turkey has no responsibility with rogar number of war vessels which pass througn the
d to the Straits.
For the observation of this rale the ¿traits Comission will enquire of each Black sea littoral Power the number of its war ve:sels; and will then inform the Powers concerned of the position of the strongest naval force in the Black be a.
The Commission will also inform the Powers concerned of any alterations in that strongest force.
Aircraft to have the liberty oi forced landing and of flying over a strip of territory of 5 km. on each side of the harrows.
(0)	Submarines of Powers at peace with Turkey must pass the Straits on the surface.
(a) Foreign naval forces to report to a signal station at the entrance to the Dardanelles or the Bosphorus.
(e) Warships in transit not to remain in the Straits beyond the time which is necessary to effect the passage; except in the event of damage or peril.
(1)	The above rules will not apply to the staying in Turkish ports of naval f.rces visiting such ports.
(g)		War	ships with	cases of	p	lague	>	cb	ol	era or	typhu	s
on b	0	ard	, or comin	g iron in	.f e	cte d	po	rt	s	must p	at s th	e
Stra	i	ts	in qua rant	ine.								
		The	same to a	pply to m	.ex	chant	V	es	se	Is hav	ing a	doc
on b	0	ard	c*nCi pass!	ng throu0	h	the btr		ai	•4- a O	. ,/ar	ships	and
mere	h	ant	vessels ,	calling	„ 4-CX .	one	of	+ •j	he	ports	, and	all
merchant ships not having a doctor on board, shall be obliged to comply with the international sanitary regulations.
II. SPECIAL PROVBSICNS FOB TILTH! CF WAR TURKEY BEING NFUTIL.L.
(a)	MERCHANT VESSELS			
	Same previsions as for I	(a). The	duties a	nd rights
of	a neutral cannot authorise	Turkey to	take any	measure
of	interference.			
(b) MILITARY VESSELS AND AIRCRAFT
Complete freedom of passage by day and by night under any fl&S, without any formalities or tax, under the limitations mentioned under I (b-g) these limitations will not, however, be applicable to belligerent Powers.
-11-
ïhe duties of Turkey as a neutral cannot authorise her to interfere with navigation througia the Straits.
Capture, visit and search, or any hostile act, is forbidden in the Straits to the belligerents*
P-evictualling and carrying cut of repairs to war vessels subject to the Thirteenth Hague Convention of 1907
III
TIME OP An,
TJHMEY BEING A BELLIGERENT a
(a) MERCHANT NAVIGATION,,
Freedom of navigation for neutral vessels and aircraft, if not assisting the enemy.
•ey	to ha	ve	the right	to viaif		and	search	
:ish	meas	are	s to preve	nt the	en	emy	ve	ssel!
Str	ai ts	no oy	not preve	nt tne	fr	eo p	cl 3	sage
,nd	Turke	TT W	ill provide such		ve	ssel	o	wi th
ins	t rue t	ion	s or with	pilo ts,	c			
'AP.y	V3S -j	SIS	A D A IRCRA.PT					
same fre		edoi	¡n for neat	ral wax	.*Sh	ips	f. cj UC	des:
il ( b ) . Turkish measures egainst enemy ships and aircraft may not prevent the free passage of neutral snips.
,71 th a view to maintaining the Straits free from any obstacle to free passage and navigation, the cones and islands indicated in Article 4 of the Convention shall be demilitarised No fortifications, no permanent Artillery organisation, no submarine engines of war, no military aerial organisation and no naval base shall be allowed, and no armed forces shall, be stationed. The Turks retain the right to place police and gendarmerie in these zones and islands, and to transport their armed forces through them. They may ooserve by means of balloons and aeroplanes the surface and tne be g tom of the
sea, and Turkish aeroplanes will be able to fly over the waters of the zones < This also comprises Greek territory,
Turney and Greece having the right to organise in tneir
territories any system of observation and communication
-12-
(Soo Article 6 of the Convention'.:
ITo submarine engines of war in the waters of the Sea of Larmora, no Turkish permanent Battery, capable of interfering with the passage of the Straits, in the coastal zone, shall be allowed. (Article 7}»
At Constantinople, there may be naintained for the requirements of the capital, a garrison with a maximum strength of 12,000 men, an arsenal and a naval base,
If re try to trace the work: of the Straits Commission as prescribed in tho above-quoted articles, it will be found that the Commission is in charge of seeing to the fulfilment of the provisions relating to tho free passage of military vessels and aircraft, in time of peace and in time of war (Paragraphs 2, o & 4 of tne Annex to Article 2}.,
Other subjects, such as the free passage of merchant vessels and the demilitarisation are no.t mentioned»
As the Siraits Commission will have to report annually to the League all information which may be useful in the interests of commerce and navigation, it may be held that tne Commission should watch all nautical measures and keep acquainted with all administrative measures taien by Surrey and interesting the free passage of merchant vessels,
As far as the work, to be undertaken by tne league under these provisions, is concerned, it may oe held that for the moment the league should merely allow tne Straits Commission to get to work and await attentively the first report of the Commission,
-13-
As the work has to be carried un under the auspices of the league, the latter may eventually address the
Commission and asK it for information, or make advisory recommendations to it. It may also make suggestions as to the possible difficulties of the Straits Regime.
For all these purposes Liembers of the Council and of the assembly may take the initiative in discussion on the sub ¿00 t.
The Report of the Straits Commission should be communicated to tno Members of the league and be mentioned on the agenda of the Council amongst the other documents which are listed there as communicated to the Members.
It can of course be discussed at the request of one Member. The Report should also he referred to in the General Report of tne Council to the Assembly.
4, ORGANISATION OF TR Considering tne matter
5 GHZ IN ? IB S 30RETARIATo now from tne point of view
of
the organisation of the work in the Secretariat, I submit the following suggestions*.
(1)	minority questions will, of course, as usual come vitnin the sphere of action of tno minorities Sec tion.
(2)	Health matters will go tc the Health Section. (?) As far as the Straits Regime is concerned the report of the competent Straits Commission must be awaited, and, when it comes, it should probably be
considered by the Political and Transit Sections.
It may be found desirable Military Conmission.
to consult the Permanent
(4) In ali oasea tiers i
anse
t:ie	y will	have to		go	to t
( H G	alth, T	Y* o' vi j. ou .i.1	sit,	Pol	i tic
and	. Legal„	)			
	In mo3t	of	thes	e c	ases
in	view of	tie	e sot	tie	ment
or	ct- t t ifl G	req	ues t	Cl	s orne
in	b1\ 0	ase	3 use	V 1	il b
C IV,	anisa ti	OllS	as t	he	Heal
Tra	nsit Ce	mmi	t tec,	th	e P'e
or	even th	o P	CA jp	ont	Oou
icidontai cues clone is competent Sections il, oinori Cies , Disarmament
ti_e Council will have Co ao t of a lispuCe of some hind member of the League ; and 5 made of such advisory th Committee, the Advisory rmanenfc military Commission,
:C of International Justice*
o , Some discussion has .been carried on between the various Directors as to whether a particular Section should,
perhaps, be designated to be, so to speak:, cne central channel through which matters connected with th-e general execution of the Treaty of Lausanne and oi the T^rhish situation should pass in the first place, This -suggesGion ■: o ui d seem not to a only to particular cases such as- minorities or health matters, but it „Quid apply -hen general questions of a political, legal or economic nature oq ,e up*
It -ould seem from the-papers received from LL «Attciico, Colban, .ran to ox, La j oilman, Salter and Haas ti.at general agreement exists on the following arrangements:
(a) The Annual Deport ex cne S c-rai ts Commission to go in the first place to the Political Section, and ail correspondence relating to such Deports to be conducted by the same Section, which Section will consult anl send copies of the Deport to the minorities and Transit Sections, and,
should it be necessary, to the Disarmament Section,
-15-
(t) Odd (¿aasfcions should only go to one Political Section in trie first instance if they are of a political nature; if they are of a technical character, they should go to the respective Technical Sections,
(o; This division of work ja, ox course, a question on which the Legal Section can only transmit the-opinions expressed by the various Directors ana has no personal opinion
to profferc
Tne Secrotary-deneral will naturally nave to decide vhetner one particular Section should also be instructed tc exercise a kind of general supervision over all such odd ouestions connected with tne Treaty - apart from the
;rs = (See
Sections which
dealing with the matte
Professor Ati:oiicoTs note of. 15 oh November I9£o, of which a copy is attached),
1st iebruary 1924.
Yan Hamel.
lirec tor, Legal Section,
-16-
A IT IT EXE.
^XC-rp	ICLES	LU TRAITE LE		LAUS
	(	24 juillet	1923 )	
qui	ont	trait à la	Sociét	é des
XUS3TIQHS EYEFTUELLB3.
1.	POLITIQUE .
Article 3 2o : L défaut d’accord entre la Turquie et la Grande Bretagne la fixation est déférée à la Société des Faticns. ( Voir aussi Protocole XIV: Article VII ) .
( Xilitaire )
Convention concernant la frontière de la Thrace.
Article 4 Toute réclamation concernant la d mili tari s tion des zones sur la frontière de Thrace doit être portée devant la Société des Fat ions.
Traité entre les Principales ?uissanees Alliées ot la
Grèce, relatif à la' Thrace, signó lo 15 août 19 20'a_
Sèvr os J
Article 5 La Société des Fat Ions intervient dans la fixation de la durée du bail, concédé à la Bulgarie, d’un terrain dans le port do Lédéagatch, et dans la délimitation de ce terrain.
Article 15..- La Société des Hâtions est chargée de régler tout différend venant à S’élever à propos des articles A à 14 du présent Traité-.
Article 16 Sur la demande ue la Bulgarie, la Société des Entions nomme une commission internationale dargée du port de Lédéagatch. La Société des rations statue on dernier ressort sur les décisions do cette Commission.
-17-
2.	FINANCES «
■.Article 47 ; Arbitrage de la Société des Nations sur tout différend entre le Conseil de lu Dette publicue ottoim. ne et les Etats successeurs de 1'"Empire ottoman.
rticle 4S* Intervention de la Société des Nations duns la perception des revenus donnes en n. ge „
Article u9 • Désigne, t ion" par lu Société les Notions dfun arbitre pour départager la Commission do la Dette.
3.	l'PINSIT,
'rticle 107 ; La Société des IN tiens choisit le commissaire oui assure le transit; - Le Conseil st tue eçt dernier ressort sur toute difficulté à ce sujet et décide de la durée du contrôle stipulé par ledit article.
Traite entre les Principales Puissances Illiées et lsT~PFè ce'.'"signé IcTTG’ aoua 192 0 T Sèvres, * 1
-.rticle 19 : Au cas où la Convention générale ci-dessus prévue n'aurait pas été conclue sous les auspices de la Société des Nations, la Irèce doit donner un préavis de douze mois ou Secrétaire général avant de se dépi rtir des obligations de
1 P rticle 19 .
4.
’.rticle 115• la Société des Notions statue en dernier ressort sur la liquidation de l'ancienne administration sani-t ire ce Constantinople3
Dé i : la ration relc tire aux Questions sanitaires.
Le Comité d"‘Hygiène de la Société dos Nations concourt a la nomination des conseillers de l'c.ôministr. tion sanitaire ottomane 0
-18-
- .r a cle
hihcbitss ,
la Société lea rations nomno, en cas
¿0 uivergence, le sur arbitra des c emissions spéciales chargé« 4e régler les question" propres aux minorités*
9 invention c oncer liant lf é oh ange des populat i o igs grecques bt turques *
Article 11.- La Société des Hâtions nomme trois montres dans la Commission mixte prevue pour 1* émigration des populations et la liquidation de leurs tiens „
Article 14.- la Société dos Hâtions fixe, le cas échéant, les gages de 1remprunt décidé par la Commission mixte
JTHIHIAJS ,
Tribunal Artitral liixte »
Article 92 A défaut par un gouvernement do nommer un membre le représentant devant ce Tribunal., la Société des Hâtions le nomme ,
Aéclrrat ion relative à 1T Amnistie
Article VI,- la Société des Hâtions nomme, lo cas échéant., un sur arbitre à la Commission prévue pour les
opérations relatives à lTamn
I2.-GCE OF r . TIC FS

Confidential Circular 5.192^. Genera.
“March 7th’, 1924.
•JT A2TEACIATI0IT OF IT BOMB 1TAVAT
Ih meeting met under unusual conditions. The Faval Sub-Cornniseion is composed of purely technical experts , and while the nemhers invited wore in principle in the same category, there was at least one exception. The huesian representative (a past Fare! attache who has attained the rank of capitain in
die P.ussi
navy) . while an expert, was also in so:
me ways
plenipotentiary, as he put forward proposals seme of which were purely political, and was evidently in direct consultation with his Government during the sittings. In other vrys the meeting was unusual. Although the discussions were on a draft Convention based on the Washington Treaty, and el though the meeting decided to confine its consideration to non-signatory States possessing capital ships, there were present members of the four Signatory Powers of the Washington Treaty, who had no direct concern in the draft Convention. There were also full members of the whose States possessed no capita}, ships one of whom discarding the decision of the Commission, insisted on discussing the case of his own country and putting his reserves in the report.
As a general rule the matters considered by the IT aval Sub-Commission are exclusively technical, and the Commission can properly refer back any questions put to it of a different nature. In the present case the Commission had before it matters which were not only naval but political, each inseparable from the other, and the dividing line of which is incapable
2 -
of definition as the stage at whiah a kitten ‘becomes a cat.
Members repeatedly brought out the fact that the 'Washington Treaty was in the main a political one, depending upon previous agreements of a political nature. Members oIso brought out the fact that they were naval exports dealing with the matter from the purely technical standpoint. Insistence on this point was much more marked during tho last two days of the meetings, when an atmosphere which wrs not purely technical r. puce red to have crept in.
Hue course of the Meeting:
The debs tea of the meeting, proceeding according to the plan, roughly rollowed the foilowing pxogrc rane:
general discussion from lath - 16th February»
A discussion on tonnage, Article 4, from the 18th to 19th-.
Tho Haval Holiday, Chapter 2, part 2, from the 20th to 22nd.
The consideration cf various articles, 22nd to 23rd.
Ecport and Pro ft Convention agreed to on 25th February, when tho meeting concluded.
Although tho discussions did not follow tho v/ell-dofined linos cf a formal conference, it was generally in keeping with the requirements oij/'a mooting of experts, which must get bach to first principles» when a departure from those principles is proposed, and it is thus necessary to re-explore the basis.
Discarding for the moment the draft Convention, which in tho mein amounted to merely reproducing the: articles enum^ratc-d therein, the naval experts had two natters of principle to consider:	(1) the tonnage, and (2) what is termed the nr:ral
Holiday”,	these are at any rate two of the fundamental princi.
plos of the Aashingtcn Treaty, it may be well to emphasise them.
- 3 -
	ÍD	The	(IOS	hing	ton Treaty put a limit	ation	on	the capital
Ski	p tonn	age	of five		Powerso			
	(2)	It	further		put a stop until 1931	to the	construction	
of	any ca	pits	1 sh	-■ ryrs S. :0 u	To this period cf su	spens5	on	f termed
rve	IT aval	Holiday		) tr.	ere wore two important	creep	tiers intended	
to	ad Tus t	the	lac	k of	building facilities due to		the	Uar, i « e o,
I ta	ly end	Hr a;	nee ,	who	were permitted to lay	down	in	1927 and
192	9 35,	00 0	tons	in-	each year (considerati	on is	die	carded for
the	mom en	t of	the	two	ships of 35,000 tons	which	Ore	at Britain
and	2 shi	ps 0	x 32	,600	tens which the United	S tate	s w	ere actually
bui	Iding)	o	C ors	id Qi-	able stress was laid li-	ur in g	the	general
¿1 p	cussion by		Bra	zi 1	re pea ted 1 y, by Spain a:	nd by	Eus	sia, on
the	folio	wing						
		fa)	■?> c J ii. -*	t th	e v/ashington ITaval Trc	aty wa	s proceded	
			bj7	agreements of a political		nature;		
		(b)	Iba	t it	was framed and agreed	to by	■ po	liticinrs,
and was therefore a political Treaty„
This argument had as its oh^eotiye the enunciation of the principle that in a purely naval Treaty such as the present Convention, to which no particular political <•:freements are attached, each sovereign Str.te must he the sole iudge of its own requirements of defence, and that it is the duty of each State to fir its tonnage, guidol by the terms of Article 8 cf the Covenant*
The reply to this was in fact that some tangible criterion, such as tonnage at a fired date, must bo adopted, are uhat a reasonable criteraon -would be the actual tonnage cf 1914 or 1921; that if some definite criterion were not taken,there would be no possibility of securing a limitation cf tonnage, which is a principle of the Washington Treaty0 tit is here to be remarked that in the meanwhile Denmark, Holland and rerwav had declared their acceptance in principle of the terms
of the Draft Convention
which pre.-supposes the
acceptance of
4 -
the status quo and that the proposed tonnage figures of these States were unanimously approved of» As a result of the foregoing discussions, the proposition was then put forward that each State should simply give its proposal tonnage figures and insert them in the draft convention.
admiral Jehenne. who had repeatedly brought the discussions into the channels out of which they had wandered, pointed out that if such a proposal were agreed to it meant that the meeting was entirely objectless, ano that the result might much more economically have been och/ieved by each Power informing Geneva by letter of its tonnage requirements. He added, moreover, that their functions were to give technical advice to the league, and tret they would not be fulfilling their duty unless they not only received tonnage figures,
but examined and advised the Council with regard to theme On the 20th February, at the instance of tie British delegate, who quoted a statement made by Brazil on April 21st, 1923, the Brazilian delegate accepted a. reduction of his tonnage demand from 105,000 tons to 80,000 tons, on certain conditions (which affected the Naval holiday)- the tonnages of all States were then considered and the opinion of delegates taken on each. The only demands calling for comment are those of:-. Brasil ...............80,000 tons.
Chili ............... .80,000
H (en the principle of ecual of tonnage in South Ameri Provided the Argentine accepte, tho same figure«.
This was agreed to unanimously,
Spain ».c............ 105,000 tons,
Agreed to by 9 votes for, 5 against an:' 1 abstention, that of Denmark c
Bussia ..............490,OoO tons.
Declined by 6 votes against to 4 votes for and 5 abstentions
5
The effort to find sone basis cf accord on the comracn ground of a definite figure (status quo) having failed,
Admiral Acton suggested considering a ITavri Holiday, such as had been proposed to the Temporary Mined Commission by Admiral Salazzo in 1922 « Here again no agreement could be reached, ani the Commission proceeded to consider the previous draft Convention article by article.
During the course cf the discussion on the ITaval Holiday, thioe of the del spates explained that their opinions registered on the various tonnages two days previously had been expressed upen the understanding of a general acceptance of the principles of the ITaval Holiday. This comment chiefly affected Spain, for whom these three States had registered a favourable o’iri'n.. On the following day, February 23rd, the replacement tonnef-es (i.e.s the exceptions to the principle of a capital ship building holiday until 1931) were voted on, and all were agreed to with the excep-
tion of Suain. The replacement tonna
U(=re x
or Aussi a vus not voted
on:	(l) because the opinion registered on her total tonnage
had been unfavourable; (2) because she required entire freedom of action, and did not accept the principle of the Naval Holidaya T^e Spanish delegate, on the conclusion of the voting for his country, read a statement in which he affirmed his country’s liberty Of action as regards its tonnage, subject to Article 8 of the Covenant, and stated that he would abstain from further •pert in the discussions. The Spanish delegate remained with his colleagues during the mootings and agreed to the terms of tho report of the Commission to the Council on the last day of the meet ing.
6
As a purely personal observation, it seems to me that too much should not be made of the incident, which hes been
that the meetings were held
y du	e	to	the fact
the	press		w 3. kj the
herefore excluded
ire
discussions had wandered fruitlessly into every avenue to fin seme common ground, and delegates were the roughly tired«
That this is the case is shown by the repeated insistence at the subsequent and final session on the palpable fact that the Conference was one of experts only, whose duty it was to express opinions freely, which opinions in no wise bound their Governments.
At the same time, I can hardly think that the Spanish delegate, if he had any doubts as to getting his tonnage, or repl 8, cement tonnage, could have recalled the fact that, if on is to judge by the Preamble of the. Draft Convention, four of the countries - Great Britain, Prance, Japan and Italy who expressed an adverse opinion, will not be parties to the proposed G onventioa r
The work that has been acccnwlished «.
fa) 17 nations (and also one nation purely in the capacity of observer) have sat round a table and frankly discussed the perhaps most delicate point of a nation's amour propro, i ,e», its national defence, affecting 10 of those nations a
(b)	States concerned have made known their desires as regards capital ship tonnage and a respite in construction.
(c)	There is the germ of an agreement between the three South American states-
T^e following is *n analysis of the work achieved
S tate c	Tonnage limit.	Building before	Beserves as to
		1931 o	tonnage limit.
Brazil♦	80,oeo	35,000 in 1927	
Chili.	80,000	35,COO "	-
(Provided	Argentine agrees	to tonnage limit*	The general
view was that a definite limit for these three States would he very desirable and in conformity with the principles of the Washington Treaty<> Moreover, this limit was suggested in thé 1922 Convention, If Argentine had had a full member at the meeting, it seems ouite possible that an adjustment to meet her slightly entra tonnage could have been unanimously adopted).
Greece
3G,000
26,000	in 1924
if ”Salamis”
(in Germany) cannot be completed.
The acceptance b Turkey of the same tonnage limit and the re ten tien by Turkey of the 3 capital ships she now has.
(The reserve does not seem incapable of adjustment. If Turkey declines to come to the conference, the Draft Convention night be widened to give liberty of action to Greece, should Turkey not conform her building programme to the conditions laid down. )
Spain
105,000	tons To lay down 35,000
tons in 1927 and 1929.
(Spain has already stated that this tonnage figure, which is based on technical considerations, in no wise prejudices any subsequent reductions which for political reasons may he agreed to at the international conference.)
Sweden	60,000	24,000 in 1927 Acceptance of
s imi 3 ar t onrage limit by all other riparian States of the Baltic.
('The remarks made in regard to the Greek reserve equally apply)
490,000
Bussia
ho restriction.
b
State» Tonnage limit» Building before '	'	1931»
Beserves as t:
tonnage jimit
-for
•naval-----	— - ------ - - —------------, ----------, ----- ----
proposition would not be in aecordanoe with the principles of tho Washington Treaty, and that tie signatories of that Treaty would be directly affected by the consideration of such a proposal It may therefore be considered impracticable tc include Russia in tho proposed Conventions While this may be an illogical conclusion to arrive at after‘what has been said as regards the Swedish and Turkish reserve, the practical side/the question must not be overlooked:	fl) that a 35,000 ten battleship costs about £7-g- million,
and (2) takes about 3 years to build3 Any immediate apprehension as regards the Swedish reserve vis-a-vis Russia tends therefore to disappear, especially when One considers the provisions of Article 21 of tho Washington Treaty, which provides that if any of tho five Contracting Rowers consider theix naval defence materially affected by any change of circumstances/,all tho Contracting Powers" will meet with a view to re-considering the Treaty«)
18,000 tons
Denmark Norway Netherlands 26,550	17
16,048
(Those countries accepted the status quo and the pi inciple of the Naval Holiday) »
The question of a further Naval Conference»
In the early part of the proceedings members of the Naval Sub-Commission seemed to incline to the opinion that it was desirable, after the nresent Conference, to call a similar naval meeting of States not possessing capital ships. This •'iow altered, however, when the difficulties arising out of the present conference became apparent» The general view on the two closing days was that until the- difficulties as regards the capital ship States can be adjusted, no good purpose can be served by calling together a further conference» **ome of the members were also inclined to think that it is a matter vhicb needs further consideration, and thet it is not certain, provided
Q
the capital ship countries1 difficulties
can be adjusted, whether
it would not be better to go str-ight to the conference and to consider the small State claims ft that conference us a wbo"e. In any case, the Conference as shown in its report decided that the first action was to send a copy of the whole proceedings to all S bates,
Whatever of the political element enters into the case of States with capital ships, this element must, it seems, be proportionately greater with States which have no capital ships, and perhaps wholly so with those States which have no Euvy, or
next to none« In the lest named category considerations can hardly be nava1 te chni oa1 =
As regards tie International Conference.
If the presence of ell countries in a plenipotentiary capacity including Argentine, can be secured, there seems no reason xcr delaying it unduly. Even were it to fail - and there seems no reas why it should - another step will have been made towards t limitation of armaments«
Meetings of experts cf a preliminary and confidential na ture, if they are not proceeded with for a considerable time, rr - t^nd to arouse professional apprehension, and this would be dispelled by the ussomblying of a plenary conference.
fin this connection it is most important that the results of the Borne Meeting should be approved for issue to all nations at the earliest moment)^
Moreover, excepting the case of Bussia and furhey, the positic of the League would, if a convention were signed, become very much strengthened vis-a-vis those nations in the direction of the limit: tion of armaments - Assuming that at the present moment no nation is free to build, there is, as the delegate for Spain pointed cut, no limitation imposed, If, on the other hand, the Convention is
1C
signed and Sv/eden or 3-rooce has ground, under the terms of its reserves, to be asked to bo relieved of this obligation under the Covenant, the matter is in the hands of the league, whose moral right of enquiry from Russia and Turkey (assuming those States not to have signed the Covenant) is apparent„
0onclusion.
One point was particularly noticeable during the course of the debates, .ihile again and again the French and Italian delegates drew the attention of members to the sacrifice made by their countries under the terms of the Washington Treaty, in no case was there ever the sue-gestior of a reproach from other States for such sacrifice. Indeed, one could not help feeling that the Washington Treaty stood rat as a moral influence of the highest order to non-signatory States, and that its successor, the present Convention, if signed, would place the final seal on any unreasonable competition in ITaval armaments.
(Signed) J.M. EODOS.
29 o2 jS'ic
11
The paper written Ip tie Secretary of the home lire-ting provides an excel Ion t summary of the debates»
The prosent note has no other object than that of filing my ovui opinions as to some of the aspects of the meeting.
The Basis__of the Meeting.
The Commission was absolutely divided as to the various bases of its work*
For some delegates this worm consisted in the extension of the two principles of the Washington Treatyf i.c.
(a)	the limitation of armaments to a status cuo (date uncertain)
(b)	a navo 1 ho liday.
The main representative of this tendency (leaving aside, of course, the four Washington Bowers), rs the Dutch delegate. Other Powers took their stand on Article. 8 of the Covenant, ox more generally on the principle of national security and accepted a limitation of their armaments to a figure calculated to satisfy this principle while in harmony with the whole of the naval situation in the world.
This second tendency was put to the Commission by the delegations of Brazil, Spain and Russia,
The first principle was defended on the ground that it was the only practical way for dealing with an otherwise almost insoluh problem,
The second principle was defended cn the ground that there was 110 status quo dote that could satisfy everybody, and that both in Washington and in Romo the followers of the status cuo principle had had to admit considerable modifications of it in the form of suspension of naval holiday.
12
L choice between these two principles is here out of the question, nil that is necessary at present is to point out that the Commission was so divided from the outset, that it remained so divided until the end, and that much of the confusion of the proceedings was duo to the fact that each party was speaking, as it were, a different logical language.
Bio matter has its importance when we come to consider the results of the Heating and the possibilities of the work in hand.
method of work.
Starting from this initial confusion, the method of work had, of course, to he defective„ The difficulties on this count, were increased, in my opinion, by the peculiar atmosphere of the Laval Commission* The usual League method is co nci hatory a It can be seen at its best in the working of the Council* Tt does not aim at voting-victories but at real agreements* The method followed at Lome was, I fear, more military in spirit, while political in form. It is obvious that the only possibility of success was in a detached examination of too technical aspects of each problem in order to provide political representatives at the plenary Conference with a basis of fact for theii negotiations..
Besuits and Expectations *
Tue results obtained are all conditional* Lussiars lower
II
figure is hardly more than a basis for political negotiations*
The South-nmerlcan position depends entirely on the attitude of' the argentine. The Spanish difficulty is far from unsurmoun table * The Swedish position is conditional cn that of Lassie.; the Greek on that of ^urkey. But it is indispensable to point out at once that in not a single one of these cases - save perhaps that of Sweden - is it wise to expect a success on the basis of the status
Quo „
13
It seems, therefore, advisable that the phrase " IT TIT TV- ?X OF CF HAVAL A’RMA..f2I IS" which has been to the fore in this matter since the Assembly took a hand in it fa fact which has been somewhat for-, gotten by the home Lieeting) should begin again to play a prominent part« While the extension of the principles of the Washington Treaty may prove to bo impossible7 the limitation of naval armaments to a reasonable figure all round is certainly within sight» Were it possible for the Washington Powers to accept a compromise on those lines, nruct/woxild have been done to clear the air of misconceptions and misunderstandings•>
ILt seems that whether a second technical Conference or a full political Conference is contemplated sg the next step., nothing should be done without careful preparatory work not precisely of the character which can be carried out at meetings. The leus si an, Turkish and Argentine position must be ascertained* It may bo that in the course of this work, the need for a second technical Conference may appear* In any case it now seems certain that the time has come for dropping the hard and fast division of Powers concerned between countries at present possessing capital ships and countries that do not possess thorn* Rather would it seem advisable to canvas the work according to geographical problems even if the study of these problems were to be approached in tie frame of &n inclusive general conference. It seems, for instance, certain that no solution of the Swedish question can be attempted without the study of the Baltic question as a whole, and the same observation applies to the positio. in the Black See .
(Signed) S. de lIABARIAGrA.
This is an interesting note and (although it may give you a sense of insecurity) I may add that my British mind has been working along the same channels. Happily I feel too that your line of approach for the future is the right one.
(Initialled) E -.D *
4r*3 * 1 9 S d n
LSA GIE CF HA IIOÏTS.
Confidential Circular 6„
hot:
BY THY
SECHSÏAR Y-GERER AL TC DIRECTORS.
I should ho glad if all Direct era could arrange to bo at the Secretariat during Council Meeting.0 not lator th.an 9*45 £coc , uniers occupied on official b us Lne r s o Is ov/hc r o .
11th Mared, 1924,
Ccnfidential Circuler
out of print
7.1924
34
SOCIETE DES ETIONS.
gQNFIDENTIELLS.	Gonfidential Circular 0,1924.
Communiaué aux Sous-
Secretaires généraux	Genève, le 25 avril 1924.
jlTaux PifecteurTI
REUNIONS ECP.S PE GENEVE.
Note pour la Secrétaire général.
Plusieurs journalistes sont venus attirer mon attention sur le fait auren dépit de la Résolution de l’Assemblée les réunions hors de Gonève deviennent de plus en plus fréquentes.
Une sous-commission de la Commission Temporaire Mixte va se réunir à Prague. Pe même on a convoqué à Bruxelles des réunions des sous-commissions de la Coopération Intellectuelle. Enfin on annonce pour le début de mai une session du Comité d'Bygiène à Paris et pour un peu plus tard, toujours à Paris, une session de la Commission Permanente Consultative pour les questions, militaires , navales et aériennes.
Je crois que l'Association dos Journalistes pour la Société des Nations a l'intention de protester officiellement auprès de vous. Je suis sûr en tous cas qu'il y aura prochainement à ce sujet des articles dans la Presse. J'ai répondu du mieux que je pouvais aux objections qui m'ont été présentées. Toutefois, dans cette note confidentielle, je peux vous dire que je considère que des réunions aussi excentriques nous portent le plus grand préjudice.
1°- Du point de vue de la publicité, ces sessions de sous-commission hors de Genève ne donnent aucun résultat. En effet, autant il est vrai qu'une réunion comme le Conseil tenue à Rome, à Prague ou à Stockholm, aurait les plus grands effets, autant ■ans sous-commission composée de quatre ou cinn personnes passe inaperçue. J'ajoute à cela que ces sous-commissions le plus
-2-
souvent ne peuvent donner à leurs travaux aucune publicité puisque les décisions ou1elles prennent doivent être soumises à l'assentiment de la Commission plénière etc.
Donc du côté publicité, aucun rendement.
2°- Inversement, les journalistes oui sont à Genève et qui sont spécialisés dans l'étude de nos affaires pourraient au contraire envoyer, au sujet de ces sous-commissions, pour lesquelles nous ne faisons aucun communique, des dépêches intéressantes.
3°- Ces journalistes de Genève se trouvent placés dans une situation très fausse si pour des raisons qui n'apparaissent avec aucune évidence on prend l'habitude de convoquer ailleurs qu'ici un aussi grand nombre de réunions de moindre importance.
4°- La dispersion de notre travail en des villes aussi différentes donne à notre besogne une apparonce vagabonde et flottante qui est très fâcheuse.
5°- Enfin, en dernier lieu, du point de vue même du Secrétariat, une méthode de travail aussi dispersée me paraît très regrettable. Pour des raisons d'économie, nous ne pouvons pas faire assister s oes réunions lointaines un grand nombre de membres du Secrétariat. Par conséquent, il est difficile pour le Secrétariat d'exécuter, à l'occasion de ces réunions, sa tâche de conciliation et de négociation. De plus, le Secrétariat est-informé d'une façon de plus en plus inexacte des multiples affaires qui sont traitées en des villes aussi distantes..
Je ne sais quelle procédure on devrait adopter peur établir, peut-être par le moyen du Conseil, un certain contrôle sur le choix du lieu pour les réunions des sous-commissions, mais il me semble que si nous voulons éviter dns attaques répétées de presse et peut-être des attaques à l'Assemblée, il importe de prendre des mesures.
(s igné ) Pierre C OMEP.T.
-3-
Minute by the Secretary-General.
I am in entire agreement with you and am inclined to think that perhaps the Secretaries to the various cominis',ions think somewhat too lightly of proposals to hold Sub-Committees etc. outside Geneva. When such suggestions are made the attention of members ought at any rate to be drawn to the wishes of the Assembly, and every endeavour ought to bo made to persuade them that the meeting should he in Geneva.
I should like to circulate vour minute and these observations to all Directors and Chefs de Sections and then to bring the matter up at a Directors Meeting.
(initialled) E.D.
26. 4. 24o
I '■
35
LSAG-ITE OF MOU OliS o
Distribute! to
tj^der-Secretaries-	Confidential Circular S,
General"and -Directors.
IE T TER P ROM DR» I.I1ITIBY 0, HUIS OIT TO THE SECHE TARY-GBEBRAL,
OITPIOEITTIÂLo
law School of Harvard University, Cambridge , lia s s ,
April 30th,1924,
Dear Sir Eric,
In Washington on April the 26th I had an extended talk with Secretary Hughes « The general effect of this I think will bo of interest to the members of the Secretariat.
lo Arras iTraffic. The Secretary read to me his instructions to LIr. Grew, These instructions would permit the United States to enter into a treaty calling for publicity and license but no control in any way by the League of Nations. The point that revolutions must not be provided against is uppermost in the instructions. They also emphasize the importance of limitations based on the federal system of government in this country.
wt
2 o Cpinm. The Secretary seemed hopeful 'about the accomplishments with reference to the opium conference. He seemed confident that the difficulties which have been met will be ironed out.
3, Obscene Publications. I asked the Secretary xf this treaty was to be acted on by the United States. He said that the treaty had gone to the P0stmaster—General for the Postmaster— Generalrs opinion.,
f
- s
4-	Tntornatfonal Pourt„ The Secretary seemed insistent
fiat action v/ith reference to the Court would hare to ho talien according to the suggestions ho has made* He saw no hope for any of the substitutes now being proposed in this country»
5.	E'ormalisation of Co-operation, She Secretary said that he was opposed to any method to formalise the co-operation which has already been begun, and which in his Judgment can be- continued.,
faithfully yours,
(Signed) 1.IANIEY 0, HUDSON,
ir Eric Drummond, " League of'hations,
Geneva, SVJITSEE LAUD
6.
10,
LEAGUE Cv livrions
Confidential Circular
pjntr-i Anted. to Undcr-Socrctaries-
Gencrai and oîrôctors .	Gonova,
May 12 th, 1924.
Si: .TUPIS:) POLI! PCS IE AGUE DGCULEITTS
It has boon suggested that notes by the Secretary-General which si iply consist of:- "the Socro tary-Gonoral has the hnnour to circulate the following communication”, might bo omitted, and the official source of the- document merely communicated in the top left hand corner by the words:- "communie; ted for the consideration, (or information) of the Council by the Secretary-General” . Ilotes by the Secretary-General containing specific information or observations v/culd, of course, in any case be continued as before.
The arguments for the chango aro:-
Tho arguments against the change arc : -
That notes containing no special information arc unnecessary, and si iply a nuisance to the reader.
Members of the j.caguc arc more likoly to read the S.GUs notes carefully if they are only inserted when there is sono definite information to give, or comment to maI:o o A largo number of notes consisting merely of:- "the S.G. has the honour to communicate such and such a letter", is likely to have the effect of making the Members of the league ignbre S.G.rs notes altogether, including the in p o r tan t o no s«
To sum up:-IP there is nothing to say, don't say it c
An example of proposed first page
The fact that the noninsertion of any note in some documents might weaken the Secretariat's claim to common't on any document it sends out, and it is very important that the Secretariat's position in this matter should remain unchallenged .
That some note between the title and the main part of the document, invites attention and makes it easier to road.
That unless thiro is some obvious advantage, it is bettor not to change the present prac tico 0
To sum up:- To upset evicting practice may be ‘ ous,. and is unnecos-
dangei sary
do or mont showing the present and .s attached.
(Signed) A. BUXTCI:.,
Present Fürst page
LEAGUE OF NATIOKS.
finnraunioa
pimnnioated to the Council TTthe Members of the League
0.19 7. FL 62. - 19 34. I
Geneva, May 6th, 1924.
SAAR BASIL
DEVELOPMENT OF THE LOCAL GENDARMERIE.
Letter of April 9th 1924 from the Chairman of the
Governing Commission.
Lote by the Secretary-General.
The Secretary-General has the honour to forward for the information of the Council and the Members of the League the following letter from the Chairman of the Governing Commission.
SAARBRUCE, April 29th, 1924
Transi a ti on
Sir
etc
Proposed first page
LEAGUE OF »ATI ON'S.
lommunicatei for the
Information of the	0.,197o 11,62, 1924
louncil and the Members of the League by the
facretary-General.	Geneva, May 6th, 1924
SAAB BA3TIv a
DEVELOPMENT OF THE LOCAL GEUPARLERIE ,
Letter of April 9th 19 24 from the Chairman of the Governing Commission.
SAAR BRUCK, Aipril 29 th, 19 34
Translation.
Sir,
etc =
• <♦
32
LEAGUE OF NATIONS.
Confidential Circular 11. 19S4.
LONDON OFT I Or:.
INFORM/ TIQN SEC TION.
REPORT FOP. THE MONTHS OF MARCH AND APRIL 1924.
The attached publicity returns for March and April show that paragraphs from this Office have appeared, during those two months, in just on 1,000 issues of London and Provincial newspapers. Although this figure has been exceeded on several previous occasions, I imagine our monthly average for paragraphs in the British Press is not likely to be higher than about 600. This is due, not to the amount of League information we receive, but to the fact that the number of day to day enquiries received at the Office makes it difficult to find time to produce much more Press material than we are now producing. A certain amount of research work is necessary for the preparation of most of the paragraphs we have sent out. This is especially the case in various technical questions, such as the traffic ir women and children, and the health work of the League.
We should have been able to send out more paragraphs from this Office had it not been for the Council meeting in March. During sessions of the Council it is useless to send out information from here, since most papers are then printing League news direct from their correspondents in Geneva and anything from here dealing with the Council would be out of date. On my return from Geneva, however, I sent out a general article on the Council Session and this article appeared, in whole or in part, in 96 British papers.
2
I am now receiving the various Committee documents, with the result that it is almost physically impossible to read all the matter which reaches us from Geneva. Nevertheless , these Committee documents are extremely useful, and nearly half the paragraphs issued during April would not have been prepared had we not had the assistance of the Committee documents to replace the few words of technical advice from members of different Sections, upun which we should depend were the work being done in Geneva instead in London. illations with
loreign Papers.	The general list of addresses, to which copies
of all paragraphs are sent, increases steadily, and there
are two important developments as far as the foreign Press
now
is concerned. I am/in touch with the League of Nations Society of Ireland, the Secretary of which informs me that the Irish Minister for External Affairs- has expressed his gratification of the help we are able to give. This Society suggests that it would be glad if I could go to Ireland sometime, and, possibly, if the Secrotary-General proposes to pay an official visit to Lublin, it might be worth while for Mr, Cummings or myself to accompany him, I have also reached an arrangement with "The Times", by which all my paragraphs, even if they are not printed in that paper, are automatically distributed to those foreign papers which take "The Times" Service; that is to say, they go to "Le Petit Parisian", "The Amsterdam Telegraaf", Tokyo "Asahi", Sydney "Sun" and Australian Cable Service, "New York Times", Corriere della Sera", and "Berlingske Tidende". Apart from this arrangment, new American, Swedish and Polish correspondents have been placed on my general list. This foreign connection is likely to be especially useful in the case of the coming
3
Hungarian loan. When the Austrian loan was launched, last year there was still considerable disorganisation in this Office and I was not in personal touch with several of the American correspondents. I think there is no doubt that we shall be able to assure far wider publicity in America for any communications dealing with the Hungarian loan than was the case with the Austrian lean® I have also had more time to get in touch with the financial editors of English papers, with the result that paragraphs dealing with Hungary, Austria and Greece are now fairly sure of a good reception.
It will be seen from the publicity returns, for example, that two paragraphs dealing with the appointment of Mr. Jeremiah Smith as Commissioner-General for Hungary appeared in the "Times", "Morning Post","Daily Telegraph"/'Manchester Guardien" "Westminster Gazette", and 76 other papers, whilst a paragraph dated /pril 23rd, based on Mr. Morgenthau’s Report on the Greek situation, was printed by the "Times", "Morning Post", and 60 other papers. It should also be remembered that copies of our paragraphs are sent to the Foreign Office, which has a wireless Hews Service to different parts of the British Empire and which uses in this Service a considerable amount of League news ........
eneral
Enquiries«	There is, I feel, cause for every satisfaction
in the steady increase in the number of general enquiries which vie receive at this Office. In many cases they involve a good deal of work but they are welcome as a proof that the public is at last realising the existence of a branch of the Secretariat in London. Many of these enquiries come from Members of Parliament and from
Government Offices
42
LEAGUE OP HATI OHS8
Distributed to	Cn&fidential Circular 12. 1924
Unde r~"S e o r e tarie s- -Cene ral and Directors.
36677/1856
AMERICA ADD THE LEAGUE,
Telegram from Mr. SWEETSER.
-
MANCHESTER Mass, June 15th 1924,
Sir Eric Drummond,
League of Nations
G E N E Y A, Switzerland,
Republican Convention just closed marks three forward steps in evolution party policy from unlimited bitterness Europe and League of nineteen twenty to normal policy friendly co-operation, Eirst old guard irreconcilables who dictated convention four years ago and maimed League here utterly eclipsed this year. lodge Chairman last Convention mere delegate this year Adams violent anti League Chairman National Committee deposed with half his followers. Whole complexion convention shows swing back towards normal view point League. Second Coolidge won great victory over Lodge - Pepuer group on court issue when platform after quick struggle declared unequivocally for American adherence court 1Tas recommended by President Coolidge” which should mean early American membership. Third while platform reiterates softened from refusal join League and usual shibboleths about agreements prevent war while preserving American independence recognized formally as Republican policy the present defacto co-operation in specific League Activities stating without mentioning League
- £ -
nfori our representatives in dealing with subjects such universal concern as Traffic Women Children, production distribution narcotic drugs, sale arms and in natters affecting public health and morals demonstrated can do our part for humanity civilization without forfeiting limiting or restricting our national freedom action	Whatever results election which still very uncertain
next administration will have backing both great policical parties for co-operation specific League activities interesting Unistates or world® Believe therefore may feel much encouraged evolution here.
SFEETSEB0
41
LEAGUE OF HATIONS.
yis l>i I DU U 0 d t J Cf. -J.¿p>~ vrf5r at ar i_cs -Gener al cjxà ITirVctor g.
Confides ti al G ít billar
13^.	1984. •■; .
The political Situation in the United SRAtSs
lei ,33* from Mr. A. Sweetser to the Secretary-Gen*?"-al.
June 4til 1924.
Pear Sir Eric:
I hop o’ you have understood my not, writing to you before this, but, as a mat tor of fact, every second of ray time since I landed here has been crowded, so that I have hardly had opportunity to keep up even by cable. Eow, however, I want to write you a fairly complete analysis on the whole situation here as I see it. Phis letter is based on a series of conversations with people of many different shades of view - Republicans as well as Democrats, League people as well as opponents, business men, financiers, journalists, etcs. Bo far as possible in a short trip, it is a faithful cross-- section
At the State Department, for instance, I spent thirty-/five minutefc with Mr. Hughes and hours of time with Unde x-Secret ary Grew and Assistant Secretary Harrison and various division chiefs. For Department of Commerce, X. had dinner with Mr. Hoover end for the Treasury saw several officials. Amongst Republicans I saw Mr.
Wicker sham privately twice, had lunch with Senator Burton, who is the "keynoter" at the Republican Convention and spent an boar with Senator McKinley. Amongst Democrats, I visitSd lorman Davis for three days, sps. t a whole day with Hewton Baker and an hour each with Senator Swanson and Colonel House. Amongst the large international organisations, I had long conversations with President Eeppcll of the Carnegie Foundation, Dr. Shedwell of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Mr. Bioknell, head of the Foreign Service of the American Red Cross, Wiokliffe Rose of the Rockefeller Foundation, , Dr. Rowe of the Pan American and Mr. Sherwell of the In.oer-American High Commission. Amongst the League group I have seen most of the
the
XOi
oi
•f,S ■
U.sJ. \
Eon-Partisan Association, including Judge Clarke,
Colby and Raymond Poo diet, etc. Finally, for .journaliste, I talked with Frank Symonüs, David Lawrence, E.Y. Rickey, Arthur Bullard, R. , Probert of the Associated Press, Ira Bennett of the Washington Post and Herbert Crowley of the Hew Republic.
Many other people I have, of course, seen, but those named above ■ I had the opportunity of talking with in considerable detail. I will try in this letter simply to give you a general view of the situation here, writing you later on specific questions, such as my interview with Secretary Hughes, of the question cx the codification of international law, the possibility of sealing I.cveday over here, the podá>'.' ibiiity of more permanent representation in. Washington, spud the cuestión ox American representation on the mission.
peot wcn: L frighten you.
the	T.M.C. and t	he Slavery	G on-
the	next four or	fir e day s	off up
ese	connections.	I hope o’	ie pros—
Yery truly yours,
(Signed) AR.PHUR SWEEP SEE.
r>
»o«
POLITICAL SITUATION IN TES UKTTSD STATES,,
The present political situation in the United States is one of extreme confusion and uncertaintyc With the Republican party badly disorganized through the recent scandals and the frequent repudiation of President Coolidge by his own leaders in Congress, with the Democrats not knowing who to nominate, and with the menace of a third party arising in the northwestern states, it is extraordinarily difficult to predict just what direction the next few months may give to American foreign and domestic policy,.
Certain broad trends, however, are evident, America is going through a process of post-war evolution not unlike that experienced by European countries,, They will settle down here, as they did in Europe, after a period of hitter reaction after the war, of rather sordid governmental corruption',, of drift towards selfishness both at home and abroad, and a narrow-minded bigotry., That phase seems to bo passing here as it is passing abroad and America is, like jurope, slowly swinging back towards greater democracy at homo and greater effort abroad,, Just bow far the pendulum has swung is a natter of speculation just as it was before the recent French elections, but that it is swinging and that it has not yet reached the top of its swing is the main point to be borne in mind at the moment 0
The Situation of the Republicans,
The coilosal Republican victory of 1920, based almost entirely on an anpoal tc conservatism, even selfishness, gave over the control of the party to the so-called old guard" professional politicians. This resulted not only in a period of reaction in government hut still worse in a series of governmental frauds in ‘ connection with the oil lands, the Veterans Bureau and the Department of Justice such as had never before been experienced in American history. One cabinet member was indicted, two otters forced to resign and Con cress forced to concentrate almost all its efforts on investigations, The- result has been an immense public disgust and revolt against the politicians and incidentally against the party in power,
President Coolidge succeeded to office in the middle of this crisis but could not stem it, Ho has proved, however, enormously' stronger than his own party and has been given a simply overwhelming endorsement for renomination, While for a long time proceeding cautiously and quietly, he has recently vetoed act after act of Congress, has token an unqualified position in favor of the Eorld Court and has shown himself to he a man of clear conviction even 1 f of a conservative nature and of no great powers of leader— sb ip.
In spite cf Coolidgers tremendous endorsement file of his own party all over the country, his par Congress have rejected his leadership on ¡occasion a They passed the bonus bill over his veto, they acte occlusion against his definite wish, they gave him entirely different from wlmt he wanted, and they di °d his wishes regarding the Uorld Court, The conv that on these issues Mr„ Coolidge has shown a di
by the rank and ty leaders in f±cr occasion, d on J ap arre s e a revenue bill roctiy disrogard-ietion seems to rect and honest
an<I probably correct policy but that his loaders in Congress
3
heve seid him oat for various political reagora.
The- Republicans go to their convention'll] Cleveland on June 10th in a disrupted state. They will re—nominate Cool id go by acclamation and will look around for a vice—presidential candidate who can add some kind of strength to the ticket., When it cornea, however, to writing the Republican platform, they are faced by a most unhappy situation, for they must
either write take sidos in i s fa t al 3
wholly innocuous and meaningless platform or the dispute between the President and Congress, which
The Situation of the Democrats.
situati
is t o b l¡efe ato gained be its years crats h su renos chance.
The Democratic Party is faced by the very opposite on. Namely, it is Quito clear as to what its platform e hut it is absolutely uncertain as to its candidates, d overwhelmingly as it was only four years agoa it has strength in past months to a 3imply unpredictable degree-, aid, through the bad record of its opponents. V/h era f our-go a return to pew or seemed quite impossible, the Demove gone on from month to month gaining in strength and s until today they appear to have practically an even
It will
The Do moer: consist first
tic platform is simple enough in a sweeping condemnation of
to write. Renat) I i can
corruption, and second, in a ¿/road appeal for a return to the Wilsonian standard. The Democrats need only to come out against and not for and will not run the risk of opening themselves up to attack on specific issues. Their objective seems to be to keep the offensive all along the lino.
V/ithin this exceptions. First, th party should bo dr tntion cs to wheth as most Democrats
eon-ralis a t i or, there are two slight re is some uncertainty as to whether or slightly wet. Second, there is s h r t c e cm e out wh ol e- h c- ar t edl y f or re inclined to do or to keep the
the si-
tho league-issue in second
place with the idea of immediate action after elections
The question of the candidates, however, is complicated at the moment. LicAdoo, the logical man both by temperament, by policy and by association with Hr. Wilson, became seriously tainted with oil last winter when it was learned that he had accepted a /5150,00C fee from the oil interests and a further contingent fee of a million dollars. Apparently hopelessly hurt by' this disclosure, LicAdoo has goneTvith the work of political organisation which he began four years ago, has carried state after state, and goes new to the convention with more than a majority of votes hut not with the necessary two-thirds.
Governor Smith of Now York, who has risen from a newsboy one cf the most capable executives in the country, has ;on gaining strength very widely, especially in the West, he is admitted to ho- a very hish type of man, but he has
to that of recently be Rverywhore two serious drawbacks in that he who favour a strict enforcement are opposed to the selection of h e can ove r c orno t he s e ob s ta ein s
■ ••'ould have the opposition of those of prohibition and of those who a Catholic for President. Yihcthor is a matter of grave doubt.
prediction now seems to bo that MaMoo and Smith ccnvc-ntion and that as neither is favourable to the other they will cut each other’s throats and allow Bdar>. horse” to come in. Once the- field of dark horses is
The-
will divide the
candidacy of the s cme
enre rod perhaps
it seems Quite ßfter the eonv
there is an almost unlimited list s the leading elandidatec At the certain that there will he ntion has been in session for
■ith
Senator Glass
p	i. Uil WCXiü-U ux
present mo men t, ho wcv e r, no clear choice until
c* J
several
days.
4
The Si tuati on jef the _Third Pertj
Senator LaEollette and his radical Western supporters arc holding the sword of Damocles ov-r the heads of loth old parties. It seems everywhere admitted that if Lalollotte desires he can carry six or eight of the Northwestern agrarian States who have he on very hard hit by the agriculture crisis, and who feel an intense antipathy for New York and the older financial elements,
Everything is shaping up f o r LaEollotto to run.,
He could not bo elected himself hut he could probably dictate the election of someone else. His control of six or eight states would cut heavily into both Democratic and Republican prospects and jeopardise the whole outcome of the election.
The common prediction, however, is made that if LaPollette runfi, no partyecould gain a majority in the electoral college and there would therefore be no normal election, In that case,, the election would go into the House of Representatives where tho La-Folletto group could hold che balance of power. It is even thought possible that agreement might not be reached here bpt that the election might he'thrown into the Senate which would he called upon to name a Vice-President who would become President, All this, of course, is speculation, but very serious speculation and the answer- to it depends on what LaEclletto will do.
Tendencies of -the Campaign.
Whatever the actual results of the campaign,
America is certain to move a step forward in its international evolution. If the Republications are re-elected, Mr. Coolidge will be much more active in International cooperation than Mr, Harding,- and will stand committed not only fo the continuation of Americaa cooperation in the league out also to the entrance of the United States into the Permanent Court and to the celling of new conferences certainly on armaments and possibly on international law. If the Democrats ere elected, there will be a very appreciable move forward toward the League though it', is probably wrong to think that America with its cumbersome system of government can proceed toe rapidly in any foreign direction.
The convention which is coning ca^notm like that of 1920, centre on all the terrors and horrors of international relations but will undoubtedly be featured by a far greater feeling of good will and cooperative effort, Europe, therefore, may watch the developing political conditions in this country with hopefulness that America will return to a mush more friendly and normal relationship than was possible in the immediate post-war reaction«
-5-
TH3 tJlJITED SMES iUD THE
LEAGUE OP HAT IOI1S.
The United States, both, government and people is slowly bat none the less unmis vakably evolving towards a much mere friendly and co-operative attitude regarding the League of Kations.
This is not prediction or prophecy. It is present-day fact susceptible, I believe, of proof by actual experience,
And if true, it is vitally important in the development of the League. It would mean that one of tbe main obstacles to this form of international co-operation is slowly but still surely being removed, for obviously the League cannot reach full development with any one Great Power half-hostileo
It does not, however, mean necessarily that America is about to join the League. Personally I do not believe she is, ilor do I think ix essential for the moment that she do, provided, first that she dees not block it and second that she co-operates There her co-operation is essential.
Arnerica.; I believe, will have four great stages in its relationship to the League, The first was the Paris stage when President Wilson may traly be said to have been the League1 s greatest proxagonist. The second was the after-war reaction in America when America was in effect the League' s bitterest enemy. The third is the present indeterminate stage of developing co-operation wixhout membership or responsibility. The fourth, vhich might 001» shrrtly with a political upheaval in this country or might be postponed for several years, will be wh ole -hearted support even to the extent of trying to use tlic League to impose the American, viewpoint on the world.
America’s relationship to the League must not be read in the light of any single event or any single year, It''is, on the contrary, a phase in the cycle of her whole development and her whole orientation to the rest of tbe world. Lon-existent only 150 years age, completely absorbed during her first century in clearing her forests sad crossing her immense territory, it was only with the Spanish war that she made her entry rather timidly into the world and with the World War that it became unmistakable tc herthinkers that she had come there to stay. Small wonder, then, that far a moment her policy is hesitant and unsure.
Beneath this hesitation, however, is the supreme fact, still often unperceived, that America has both a vital interest and a vital conviction in foreign affairs, She is driven outwards to the world both by her materialists and her spiritualists. One part cf her people stand for trade and commerce; another part for improvement and betterment. American purpose overseas is definitely positive, far more positive, far more interfering indeed that many Americans
- G
realise. If she stands for commercial equality un the one hand, she also stands for all sorts of reforms and political rights on the other, whether or not it means interference in other countries.
Some day America will awake to tho fact that the League of Nations responds fundamentally to her own ideas of international lifo and that it is in fact conceived exactly in her spirit and purpose. This statement is vital, for it means that in tine America will come to use the League as her own instruinent, She will find that it stands for everything that she stands for, for cooperation as against conflict, for universality as against alliance, for the development of law and arbitration, and for the many humanitarian interests which are so dear to a young and rather emotional public,
Sut this is generality, important indeed as a groundwork but still not present-day proof. If it provides the reason© why America is moving towards the League, it does not actually prove that she is moving. Let me, therefore, reduce the situation to more concrete terms;
First, it is incontrovertible that the at titude of the government has changed in four years from indifference amounting almost to hostility to friendly interest and cooperation. When the Republican administration came into power four years ago, six months passed without a single communication from the League being answered, Two weeks ago, on the contrary, the Secretary of State, in the principal address before the most important Republican Convention, that in New York, cited a long list of official actions in cooperation with the League, not only as proving that the government was working with the League wherever desirable but as justifying the Republican party to reelection.
The policy of cooperation v/ith the League in matters of special interest to the United States or of general interest to humanity has been, definitely adopted by the executive branch of the government, President Harding had moved just before his death from a position of hostility to the League to a position of friendly interest. President Coolidge not only took up where Mr. Harding left off but in his short term has gone considerably further. It is incontrovertible that the Executive will go as far as it feels justified in going without running the danger of an open breach with the more hostile group in the Congress,
The Executive, in other wordsg, is leaning to see the League of Nations as it is, a cooperative council table for sovereign states rather than a superstate suspended in an international vacuum. Accordingly, i'c is judging problems far more on their own intrinsic merit than as elements of seme^ dreaded international bogey. From that viewpoint it realizes that it can cooperate without entanglement and that indeed it has much to gain and nothing to loso by so doing.
/
-7-
The State Department, almost from top to bottom, has come to the idea of specific co-operation in League work.
Its officials are willing to enter into any activity of special or general interest to tho United States, providing only that it will not cause attachs from Congress. They seem to take for granted that the United States cannot, for political reasons, enter the League now aid have given up any tai thought of ail aggressive policy to lead the country to see the situation as it should be seen. Within these narrow limits, however, they have male great advenees in the last two years, the hostile elements in the Departments having been sent elsewhere and the whole organization imbued with a friendly if not at all courageous attitude to the League,
The result has been that the government has become affiliated in one League activity after another. Starting very timorously at first with tfche opium traffic, which as Hr. Hughes says, has an immense public interest behind it, the government is now firmly represented in nearly all the humanitarian questions: opium, white slavery, health, obscene publications etc,,has been represents! at general League conferences on customs formalities and communications and transit, and has moved still further forward towards a political co-operation in connection with the arm3 traffic. Within the present narrow limits the government is more than solicitous and punctilious.
The obvious policy to be pursued here is to widen this sphere of co-operation to the greatest possible extent. Definite assurances have been given that the United States, while not seeking invitations, will take part in any further such meetings. Llany such opportunities are sure to arise, such for instance as double taxation, etc., which after a period of years will show the country tied to the League by a whole series of most useful and helpful strands, none of them perhaps vital in themselves but all of them together binding America irrevocably to the League.
Second of the developments here is the increasing penetration of League activities, not only into the Executive but into the Congressional branch of the government, 'Where four years ago it was almost impossible for Congress to act on League questions, new there are several important matters before it which have become or will become law/,
.In other words, Congress cannot 'escape the League even if it desires* Lluch less can it do so as League work becomes more important and far-reaching.
The first League activity to be formally written into American lav; was, of course, in connection w ith the Yap mandate, vhich was embodied berbatim in the special treaty between the United States and Japan at the Washington Conference. Just recently, however, all the other mandates, except the British C, have similarly been incorporated into treaty and law, the United States thus formally recognising the League's mandate system tfhich for a long time she refused to recognize, Heedless to point out, this has been at the cost of great effort and disturbance, for, where if America had been a member of the League the whole maiiiier would have been automatic, now she has had
-0-
to negotiate some rozen special treaties an 1 some dozen different laws. Ur. Hughes told no this met with no objection in the Sonata.
The second League activity incorporated into .unerican la'.; i 3 tho opium v: or It. This is all the more surprising, for, while for several years the United States refused to recognise that the other powers could entrust tho execution of the opium convention to the League, now the Congress has appropriated $40,000 for tho expenses of an American -Helegation to the Loague opium conference in ITovomber. The Loague connection is thoroughly and franhly admitted and congressional approval thereby given for this direct contact with an organization which a few yoars ago was outcast.
The third activity to be mentioned is the financial reconstruction of Austria and Hungary, while Congress delayed for something over a year when first ashed to roloaso .linerican liens on Austria in order to allow a League project of reconstruction to go into effect, the Hungarian natter w-as cleaned up almost instantly. A high Treasury official renarhod to me a little petulantly that Lurope wouldn1t have any right to complain of .huerica this time.
finally must be mentioned the Court, which has not yet but soon '..ill become law. With .ha eric a' 3 membership first proposed by President Harding and later most vigorously pressed by President Coolidge, the final outcome now sans seems wall assured. Senator Lodge proposed a substitute plan which met with jeers all over the country, as it was so obviously conceived in hatred of the League. Senator Pepper then put in another plan similarly conceived but more cleverly concealed. This at once brought the most vigorous and positive declaration which Pro si lent Coolidge has yet issued and showed a split between him and his Senate loaders which is wider than any yet ievelope With the overwhelming sentiment of the country behind the President, with the Senate held in general contempt, and with the Democrats thoroughly supporting the President, the outcome seems to be but a matter of time.
’Washington, then, may be said to be pretty well penetrated with League activities. Congress has before it or has passed the mandated treaties, the opium representation appropriation, the ..ustrian and Hungarian projects, and the Court proposal; the tate department is centering -merican co-operation in a score of fielu.3; the Treasury department is interested in the ..ustrian and Hungarian proposals, the Customs Convention, the double taxation matter, and several other questions; the Commerce Jepart-

ment in all those and in transit and communioations; the Health Service in all the health v/ork; the '¡/ar Department in statistical studies; even the Post-Haster-General in the Convention on Obscene Publications. Ho re .and more this policy of infiltration is going to have its inevitable results.
The taird general point that I would make is fiat all the great semi-official international organisations in the United States are shoving an increasing interest in the league. These agencies are, of course, the first ’which should be cultivated, for their work lies directly along league lines. They could serve as channels beth of publicity and of execution of league work if they were properly stimulated. A vast amount Delia ins to be done in this field, however.
The Pan-American Union in Washington is friendly but not yet co-operating. Dr, Howe, the Director, is ’willing to work out any feasible technical co-operation with the Secretariat and will go any administrative work desired such for instance as he does for the labour Office in collecting all South-American labor statistics. He could help, also, it seems to me, in following up in South American countries, some of the League work.
The Inter-American High Commission is in a similar position. ..'ith national committees in most latin-American countries presided over by the Secretary of the Treasury, they could be most usoful in pushing the league’s financial and economic work. It is greatly to be hoped that Dr. Siierwall, their Director, will go to Geneva this fall, as suggested by Hr. Torriente.
The International Health board of the Rockefeller foundation has recently again demonstrated the substantial nature of its interest in League Health work by iro reusing its appropriation for the interchanges from $60,000 to $100,000 a year and adding another $125,000 for the Singapore Dase.
The general Rockefeller agencies are equally helpful if once they are convinced of the reality of the need. Indirectly they have already helped the ueague on several occasions and are prepared to do so in the future whenever a real occasion is offered.
The American Red Cross is most friendly, though somewhat handicapped as a semi-official government agency.
They are, however, very happy about the resrults of the Constantinople co-operation \ ith tho League and are willing to repeat if similar circumstances can be adduced. Their tendency, however, will be towards caution.
-10-
The Carnegie Corporation, which cont inues the residue of Lir, Carnegie1 s money, apart from special "bequests, has made its first contribution to League work in indirectly appropriating a for; thousand dollars for civil justice to the poor, Under the new; presidency of LIr.IIcppejL, further co-operation may be hoped for, though two difficulties must be borne in mind, first that the powers of the Corporation are decidedly limited by its charter and second that many of its hoard are Hopublicans.
Tho Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, however, has a policy which is at least divergent to the League and according to many people here positively hostile« Its Director, James Brown Scott, has always been opposed to the League cad certainly those in its immediate circle are equally so« This organization has always fought any effort at military obligation, has led tho campaign for the codification of international law, and has given a general impression of antipathy to Geneva. A good daal of hostility has developed against it, as shown by a suggestion that suit be brought to soe if its charter wore being lived up to, and apparently there is a feeling, even within the Carnegie circles, that the policies should bo at least softened if not altogether changed. That is, however, a long affair and there seems very little help to be had here for some time.
Other organizations I will pass over briefly. The Churches, especially the federal Council, are doing splendid work, especially on focussing sentiment for the Court and in a general emotional appeal against war. The lion-Partisan Association is doing some educational work but seems to incline for the moment more towards political action. Tho foreign Policy Association is stimulating thought on international affairs, and Intimately developing one or two League questions, part iculaily opium. Tho Chamber of Commerce of the United States is not yet doing as much as it might to interest the business men in the League's financial and economic work.
All in all, the great Jener loan international organizations are friendly disposed to the League and, with tdi Dne exception, perhaps, prepared to help its work. Several have actually co-operated most satisfactorily to dato and others are ready to do. so as soon as the way is pointed out to them. In other words, the spirit is right.
That is now needed is to develop that spirit along w practical lines. Definite plans should be ’worked out to >, give each one of those organizations some specific task to do. The './hole movement might well be correlated and stimulated. Through each agency a new group could be reached and a different kind of result obtained. At the moment, hov/ever, no real thought is being given to this s ituation.
- 11 -
The fourth, point I would maize evolution towards the League is the ■bitterness and hatred has 1
in diowing America’
Th
selv
shift
y gon
in public opinion.
Le ague
is looked upon with more reality than hitherto and seen more for what it is. The old bogeys of super-states and marching men have largely been exploded and the ether terrors of the isolationists made ridiculous.
America has probably gone through the same cycle of emotions as Europe - immense dedication to the war, reaction to selfishness immediately afterwards, a short attempt to go it alone without the rest of the world, a disillusionment as regards this theory of isolation, and now finally a return to a more normal helpfulness and a swing over to the lef t. All this, of course, is vital to the League.
The most striking result of this shift has been the spectacular rout of the terror-spreading Irreooncilables. where four years ago they held the balance of power, to-day many of them are entirely cut of political life. Senator Johnson, who aimed for the Presidency, has been so overwhelmingly defeated in the Republican primaries that he has withdrawn from the race. Senator LIcCormick has been defeated in the Illinois primaries; Senator Hoed could not get the endorsement of his own state for the Presidential nomination; Senator Hoses was not made a delegate from Lew Hampshire; Senator Prelinghyson is gone. Local issues of course played a big part in each of these defeats, but it is a Striking fact that the irreconcilable type has been thrown out in instance after instance, I might add also that Senator lodge is probably the most unpopular man in the United States to-day, having opposed his own Republican president as bitterly as he opposed Llr. Wilson.
These defeats, plus the return to a broader vision, plus also the barrenness of the present administration as regards foreign affairs, has led to a great deception,as to tho infallibility of the Republican party and its ’’best minds”.
The League has stubbornly refused to stay dead after having been decreed dead, and the far-famed Association of Rations is an embarrassing subject of conversation«. Lore and more it is obvious, though I do not mean that this view is general^ that America must co-operate with the existing agency of the other governments or abdicate from international life,
The present make-shift policy of special conference and individual treaties with all the sixty odd nations cf the world is too evidently impossible.
This situation will be reflected in the coming campaign. The Republican party will not be and cannot bo the party of irreconcilable opposition to the League and all its works.
It will make great capital out of its protection sf American sovereignty ]*ut at the same time it 'will have to admit, and it may even as did Secretary H-ghos, claim credit for, a large degree of co-operation with, the League.
12
Having to sabotage the ilea of an Association of nations, v/hich kept 1920 platform afloat, and having to keep a discreet silence on the conflict between the two presidents and the Senate on the l/orId Court, the Republicans mill probably stress tho Washington Conference, claim credit for the Sxperts Report, point with pride to South America, stress the safety of tho flag and forget exclusion. In order to have something approaching any degree of definiteness for the future, t-hoy will lay stress on a iiev; arms conforenco and on the codification of international law Indeed, that is to be tho basis of Senator burton’s keynote speech, in v/hich he has also promised to put some kind words about Europe and the League as a peace agency of Europe.
Tho Republican party is distinctly moving forward, however. The older, more reasonable, more informed elements are reasserting control and bringing fee party over xirm once again to its normal position of i:it ernational-mindedness from which only hatred of Wilson drove it. The Root-Hughos-Hoovor group is gaining; tho Johnson-LIcCormick-lloses group losing, evon the terrible John T.Adams leaving tho chairmanship of the national Committee. The party is by no means back on the right track yet and probably will not have time to get there ¿Luring this campaign but it has gone far since 1920 and is now well on its way to a normal policy.
The Democrats, meanwhile, are less valiant and vigorous for the League than they were under Idr.Wilson but they are still strnngly for it. Their great question is how far it is wise for them to press it in the campaign. Is it, in othe words, good politics to come out flat for it and take all tho credit and all tho discredit, or is it better politics to leave the Republicans no shining target to aim at but to .take the League for granted, win the election, and then go in?
All this is a matter of strategy. It will be decided on the judgment as to which will make election the surest. It does not mean that tho Democrats are less keen on the League but rather that they think they can best serve the League by making sure of ol act ion and thus getting all tho machinery of government boiiind thorn. There are thus two elements in tie party, the aggressive and the moderate.
The aggressive are typified Secretary of Aar, who will fight an out-and-out League pi cl tf orm. men like Senator Glass, who might candidate for the Presidency, and is perhaps the best element in th Wilson group, and the most expori to be very influential.
by liowton D. Baker, former through tho Convention for Leaning towards liim are quite well be a compromise forman Davis* This group e party, tho most pro-one od abroad, and is sure
The moderate group, which is typified rather more by the professional politician type, would get all the benefit of the League by condemning the Republicans and praising tho work already done by the League, but would avoid tho

13
embarrassment of coming out too directly for it, Governor Smith is probably of this type, and curiously enough Col.
House, who has boon very active for associate membership.
The:.only strong diversion from theso two main viewpoints, and it is probably a diversion from the latter moderate viewpoint, is that of IIcAdoo, the strongest single candidate at the moment. He has conceived the idea of a platform pledge that tiie Democrats stood for the League in 1920, that the world would have been infinitely better if their policy had prevailed then, that they still stand for the League, that they would favour going in if elected, but, as the question should bo non-partisan and as American membership must be non-partisar, they would favour a national plebiscite immediately after the election to decide the issue ©nee and for all.
This proposal is alluring politically. It allows the Democrats all the benefits of League support and none of its inconveniences. At the same time, as IIcAdoo says, if the Democrats were elected, the plebiscite would bo ovorwhslmingly pro-league, because many Bo publicans could veto for it and tho whole administration would bo behind it.	Do spirits this,
however, I doubt if that plan wins, as it will be bitterly fought by tho League element, who regard it as lodging, who claim a plebiscite would bo unnecessary in the event of a Democratic victory, and who regard a plebiscite as unnatural and, if pressed by the administration, as unfair.
Whatever the results of tho election, and they are so uncertain that prediction is useless, the natural evolution of the United States towards the League will continue. If the Be publicans come in they will move faster towards tho League than they have done in past months; if the Democrats coma in there will bo a great acceleration, though I am not sure that they can enter immediately. In other words tho nations in the League can well take hope at developments here.
If any suggestions of policy were desirable, I would say
The first and absolutely essential element in .Amorica* s attitude to. the League is success. If tho League succeeds, it will not be possible, finally, to keep America out. Consequently a timorous or a cautious policy overseas defeats its own ends. The best possible attitude is to assume that the League is here to stay, that it can get along perfectly well without America, and that tho nations on the other side are quite content to keep busy reshaping the world’s destinies while America plays politics. Americans love success above all else. Conversely they detest and distrust solicitation, sc much of vh.ich seems all the time to be coming from Uurops.
Tho second suggestion would be to widen to tho furthest limit possible the present co-operation with the United States. Tills can be done, not in any trafficking way but on the simple basis of giving America the opportunity to protect its own interests or present its own point of view.
14
There aro a good many tilings v/hicli might advantageously he done in this line, special invitations, naming ox Jan or leans to commissions, and stimulation of the great agencies in America, This can 'be done quite quietly and unostentatiously, till it finally cumulates into an appreciable, indeed an indoniable total,
finally, a special thought nay he had to mooting America1 s views in advance, The two things which she now wants aro a new arms conference and the codification of international law. Both of these night perfectly fittingly he talien up through the league,and America thus forestalled in her efforts to avoid the league. There does not have to ho any undue solicitation in those natters; it is quite within the dignity of the League to take action on either of them, simply informing and inviting America. The more the league preempts the field the more certain America is to find a way to work with it.
54
LEAGUE OF RATIONS,
Distributed to	Confidential Circular 14. 1924,
Under' Secretaries -General
and"Directors & Heads cl Ports .
RECORD OF IITTEDVISW:
Dr. Hederbragt came to see me this morning.
l) He has been entrusted by the Supervisory Committee with an investigation into fa) questions of publication, fb) the numbers and work of the personnel generally.
Ho intends to start this enquiry some time in the beginning of August, Of course, for this purpose he will require the help of the various Directors, Chefs de Service and Heads of Departments, and I assured him that he would of course receive every assistance from them.
Meanwhile-, he asked that the following documents might
be prepared and sent to him as soon as possible
fi) A revised list of pages 39 and 40 of the Staff Regulations;
fii) A Staff .List as sent out (for the use of Governments only) on the 15th April, 1924, but revised as to details up to the 1st July.
He requires these for the Personnel enquiry.
For the Publications enquiry he would like a list of publications,
(i) General, fii) Departmental.
TiTith a note as to the purposes of and the authority sanctioning the publication; and a statement as to the annual cost of each publication, and the number of copies printed.
He would also like specimen copies to be available when He comes in August.
2
I should be glad if the work of preparing these documents could bo put in hand as soon as possible, and such document when ready sent to Dr. Itfederbragt at Hhe Hague.
(Initialled) E.D.
38th June, 1924.
Mr. Huston, (
) as to personnel documents required. I should like Mr. Bieler, (
) to get these to Dr. Ucderbragt soon.
Miss Howard, (
Perhaps II. Vigier will make himself responsible for
the publication information which is to he prepared,.
ij.bgïïj ou ;t..tioits
Confidential Circular 15.1924.
The Political Situation in the United States
hvo letters, dated June 18th; from In*....Sweetser to the
Secretariz-C-enercl
Dear Sir Uric:
The Republican Convention at Cleveland marhs the consolidation and completion of one distinct stage in the foreign policy of the Republican party away from the intransigence of 1920 to the old policy of Republican interest and activity in all foreign questions.
The most striding indication of this change perhaps is to be found in the general attitude of the party, Uhereas the 1920 convention was based almost entirely on the note of bitterness and hostilité' towards the League of Nations, the present convention was much more friendly and actually carried in its platform an endorsement both of .unerican entrance into the \7orld Court and of American participation in four specific League activities.
This change was a natural reflex from the eclipse of the old guard leaders v/ho dominated the 1920 convention in favor of the new and much more moderate leadership. The dominating personalities who gave color to the Renublican party both at the last convention and during Kr. ïïarding1s administration, namely, Senator Lodge and Chairman .idams of the Republican Rational Committee, were entirely without position in the present convention and their places occupied by men who, like President Coolidge himself, are much moré1 pro-league . This evolution I believe to be thoroughly normal and logical for the reason that the Republican party has alwa^^s been the party which was interested in affairB overseas. It has been the party of the big financial interests, the party which fought the Spanish 'ar and annexed the Philippines, and the party v/hich has sought to advance .mieriean interests all over the wotld.
If in 1920 it suddenly becane isolated, it was simply due to the political necessity of defeating Lir. -Tilson who had completely reversed the historical position of the Democratic party.
The Cleveland Convention opened with a key-note
speech by Senator Burton, who openly announced himself as one who
favored America’s entrance into the League with proper reservations.
Hr, Burton ga.ve the usual, though rather more kindly, Republican
condemnation of the Do a w.o as a political agency and stated that
membership was not for the United States. He stressed the necessity
of Burope itself making peace, urged the impossibility of creating
a league of Rations in conjunction with a treaty of coercion and
punishment, and pointed out certain things which have not yet been
done by the League, . .ft or this thoroughly expected denunciation,he
» !
-1
stated that t United "tatos in the humcni beneficent re States had ale most- uneqnivo presented by •posed re re th and by inf ere Sen'tors.
he principle of conference was a pood one welcomed whatever good the League acconpl tarian and non-political matters it has ac suits and that in some of these activities ready taken part. finally Hr, burton came cal terms in favor'of the Rorld Court pro"' President Coolidge, stating that the reser oroughly adequate for protecting ..merica’s nee making a very severe criticism of the
that the ished,that complished the United out in the osai as rations proposition Lodge-Pepper
The Republican platform follows very closely these same lines. Especially is this so in its endorsement of the Court »as recommended by President Coolidge". This formula, which it is commonly understood was written by President Coolidge himself, contains the formal repudiation by the Republican party of the Lodge-Topper Senators. It was secretly very bitterly fought in the Resolutions Committee, but in the final analysis nobody could be found to lead a fight against it on the floor. It may be assumed, therefore, that the Republican party cannot now escape .joining the Court.
The second most important development was the formal endorsement bjr the Convention of four League of Rations specific activities in which the United States has already participated,
’There this particular '■aragraph originated would be a most interesting question to investigate but I strongly suspect that it was either drawn up by Hr. Hughes or taken from the speech which he made before the ITew York State Republican Convention. This paragraph has such a tearing‘on the development of'League policy in this country that it is well-worth quoting in full.
"The work of our representatives in dealing with subjects of such universal concern as the traffic in women and children, the production and distribution of narcotic drugs, the sale of arms, and in matters affecting nubile health and morals, demonstrates that we can effectively do our part for humanity and civilization without forfeiting, limiting or restricting our national freedom of action."
_'unorican co-operation with the League of natio ns is therefore formally provided as part of the policy of the Republican aarty. Ho mention, is, of course, made of the League in this paragraph, nor is any credit given to the League, but that is part of the timid policy by which -r.ericcTs evolution towards the League i£ teing conducted.
not onl” h, «liability certain nn-
Tine is the R toward
•esult of this declaration means, however, that jublican party given up its policy of irrecon-
Onij^ has it approved ;, but also it has in'
ii
th;
the loo	pi 3	of Rations	, not
air eady	made	with the	Learn.
hi s end	othe:	r paragrap	hs pi-
r questi	. ons.	There ca	nn ot
c the League		has been	’itll
Æ .	’t, faced
- immediately securing roroughiy sound policy •ctivitios as particul _
ff "boon formally adopted, it romains to e: and to weave as many strands of contact ne "nitod Rtates as it is possible to
be any doubt, therefore, the utter irno-siMlity .j merican membership, it has pursued a j in securing .American co-operation in such arly appeal to ,'jneriea. ‘Tow that this principle
and it in ever'7 bet''eon the Le
lossiole and
gue
"Gave
— 9 —
CJ
deciaeo. ship i:1 g-'ocific
The Republican platform, therefore, marks a very ard progress. It definitely approves ..-jn6riean member-0 o"uijl *t as i w errists today ancl .drier i can co-operation in League activities. Lrho can doubt that as imerican deloga
r on the
.ssenbly delegate
and Council to vote s narticipate in al
>-p
the league in other lines, , while it is sitting in
sit in the as xnieri can activities o realises that tlie T-eague, it 1 idlere the final few dollars towards the common cost of unkeen so;.ie day no a ware of indignation sveen across
for the judges of the Cou the varied and manifold as the . me ri Can publie many of the sub-committees o
tes rt,
as disfranchised itself from the great assemblies decisions are taken and has failed even to pay its
that there will the country which
•.ill demand that nor loan relationship to the League he put on a complete, thorough and self-respecting basis?
ocoo 0000 oooo
Dear Sir Uric
The Republican national Convention just concluded, at Cleveland marks certain new and very important tendencies which will have à deep effect on both America1s domestic and foreign policies.
nothing could have been more complete than Mir.
Coolidgers victory, dominated four years ago by a sudden, quick impulse of the convention, carrying on for three years almost uniioticed as Vice President, succeeding to the Presidency at Mr. Harding's death and to the great alarm of the politicians who felt that he would not maire good, fought and indeed defeated in three of'four of his most import, nt policies by members of his own party, Mr. Coolidge was renominated practically b;^ acclamation ’of the Cleveland Convention and given there a position where his slightest wish was law.
The regular party organization, the so-called Old G-uard, which had dictated the 1920 convention and the first three years of the Republican administration, was swept completely aside and a vAiiîle new and almost untrained political leadership installed.
The reason for this change is fairljr simple. The Republican politicians'realize èhet the greatest asset, indeed almost the only asset of the party, after the recent oil scandals and investigations, is the character of Hr. Coolidge. -Everywhere it is appreciated that the disclosures at Washington and the rather shame-faced looting of the Government by certain officials high in authority had caused a general revulsion against the Republican party, which might quite easily turn the election against them. It the same time there was little of outstanding importance to point to save perhaps the -Washington Conference.
It was the best of strategy, therefore, to attempt to wipe out all this unsavory past bjr giving complète power to a man so patently honest and sincere as Hr. Coolidge. During the past few months a most extraordinary legend has been built up about "the strong silent man in the P/hite House,” and during tho next fev* months the curtain will be rtravm over the 1920 epidode and the first three years of the present Republican administration. The curious spectacle presènts itself, therefore, of the party which had been terribly incriminated by the Washington scandals running on a basis of character and honesty.
The so-called Old Gaiard abdicated, or perhaps better, were entirely eclipsed, at the Cleveland Convention. Senator Lodge, who dominated the 1920 convention, was given no place of honor, not even in his own Massachusetts delegation. John T. .-dams, who had teen the frightfully violent Baemy of all foreign nations in his' position as Chairmen of the Republican Committee, has been superseded together with a good part of his followers. The old familiar professional politicians have, for the moment, left the scene.
The new group at present in power is headed by Mr.
Sutler, a Boston man, \ithout a very great experience in this kind
°f work. Ilis immediate supporters, who are naturally strong Coolidge
®on, are also bitterly hostile to the opposition to Mr. Coolidge
especially among Republicans in the Seriate. This was well evidenced
in the attack on the Senate made by Ilr, Burton, who had been chosen
°y Mr. Coolidge as the •'keynoter" of the convention, and also by the
! »
-4-
adoption of Ir. Coolidge's Court proposition in defiance of the Senate and the obvious leaning of the platform towards the administration’s taxation project rather than the Senate project.
Hov/ lfing this control will last is a natter of keenest interest.
If it is a permanent thing it is undoubtedly for the best interests of the country. There are, however, many who believe that the Old guard has simply stepped aside for the moment; that it is rather cynically using hr. noli dye's name and reputation for all that it is worth in the election; and that, if he is elected, it will come forth again to defeat his policies just as previously it defeated him on the bonus, Japanese exclusion, taxation, etc.
For the moment, however, the Republican party is appreciably stronger. Mr. Coolidge himself is absolutely unassailable except on the ground of his admitted conservatism. He is a highly respected and, at the moment, a popular man in whom the public has confidence. General Dawes will add a tremendous strength to the party, especially among the financial- interests, and will also give that touch of color and drama so essential to an American election. The platform is in general stronger and better than had been expected, and the present administration of the party gives ground for hope that a real housecleaning has taken place. The Deaocr&ts will, of course, make their utmost effort' to keep alive the atmosphere of graft and corruption which prevailed in Y/ashington only a short time ago, but unless I misjudge AmeiiLcan psychology, the public will soon get tired of that kind of mek-raking and may even for that reason rally to Coolidge's support in order to give him his own chance.
One great weakness there is, of course, in the present Republican situation. That is the defection of Senator LaRollette and the probability, almost the certainty, that he will head a third ticket which will be detrimental to both parties. The XaTollette delegation from Wisconsin sat throughout the Republican Convention the center of all interest. They were jeered and booed and challenged by’the other delegations but sat silent and unmoved throughout it all. They refused to show any element whatsoever of party loyalty, vbted for DaRollette rather than for Coolidge, and put in a platform most contradictory to the Republican platform. In fact they did everything except leave the convention, which they did not want to do for the reason that they did not wish to give up their control of the Republican organization in their own state.
Every indication, however, is now/ that Senator La-Rollett« will run on the third ticket, nobody knows definitely, of course, for‘mystification is part of his strategy. Y/hether or not' he does run, he is a constant threat both to Republicans and Democrats and may be in a position to hold a small balance of power luring the campaign.
Any prediction as to the final outcome is at present unjustified. One thing, however, is clear, namely, that for the moment Mr. Coolidge has shaken off his very bad heritage and has
put the Republican party in a much stronger position. Indeed unless Democrats show a very great degree of wisdom at the Hew York Convention and nominate a real ticket on a real platform, I Should that the chances were strongly in favor of Republican re-election. if, however, the Democrats can do at !Tew York comparatively’ as veil as the Republicans did at Cleveland, it is anybody’s race.
I
37
LEAGtE OF NATIONS.
pistributod to
^¡Ter secretaries
]n3ra 1 and Fir octors .
Confidential Circular 15. 19240
Geneva, August 9th, 1924.
THE FOLLOWING ARTICLE BY Mr, SW53TSER IS CIRCULATED FOR INFORMATION.
TEE DEMOCRATIC C ONVE NT I ON.
The Democratic Party has just concluded the most extraordinary political convention in the history of the United States - a conventio which developed conflicts going more deeply into the American consciousness than any since the slavery issue; which opened up for the first time the rift of religious irreconcilability in American political lifo; which witnessed a herculean struggle over the League of Nations; which saw two of America's strongest men pitted against each ether in what become a political death struggle; and which finally endod in a triumph of democracy and wisdom which may bo just groat enough to heal over the terribly deep wounds inflicted on nearly all sides.
For two works this extraordinary meeting held 1100 delegates and 14,000 spectators almost breathless in the stifling heat of Now York and practically the whole of the United States in eager suspense as the nows came over the radio and the telegraph wire No parallel tc« it exists, either in the intensity and the profundity of the political and personal issues involved or in the final climax which brought victory to John W. Davis on the 103 rd Ball-call of the 48 states and 6 territories.
The Democratic party came tc this convention expectant of struggle and conflict but in no measure anticipatory of what actually occurred. Out of office for four years, shaken by the 7,000,000 adverse votes in the 1920 debacle, lacking unified command or direction, torn by conflicting candidates, and trembling beneath the surface by issues which most wanted to avoid, the "realpolitikors" hoped to be able to force a way through the imbroglio without creating too great disturbance or too many enmities. No one adequately appreciated, however, either the depth of the issues or the tenacity of the candidates.
Most disturbing at the outset, of course, was the conflict for leadership. Mr. McAdoo had by far the greatest measure of support, at least 400 of the HOC votes, but only his own faithful ever thought he could secure the two-thirds necessary for nomination.
While he was very strong in the West, he had been tarred with the oil scandal, had been charged with using his political position to secure favors at Washington for his clients; had boon vaguely but uneasily connected with the Ku Klux Klon, and had created most bitter enmities, especially amongst those who had to secure his elimination in order to adva nee their own candidacies. Govennor Smith of New York was conceded about 300 votes, but ho also was considered out of the running, first because he was a "wot", and second because as a^
Catholic ho would have had a great religious opposition, especially in the West. Nearly a score of other candidates were in the fit Id, of whom John W. Davis would undoubtedly have been far and_away in the load if it had not been for his connection with the law firm of J.P.Morgan, which was thought to kill him in the West.
-2-
Th< difficult ice surrounding the issues of the Convention seemed it the cutset simpler than the candidacies. To bo sure, there was the league of flat ions and the Ku Elux Elan, but somehow it seemed generally believed they could bo skipped over, what leadership there had been in the party had decided to dodge the League issue, pass by the Eu question, and concentrate on the obvious deviltries of the Republican party as shown in the oil scandals and in an undemocratic taxation and tariff system, Why, when the country was in turmoil over the exposures of corruption which forced three- cabinet members to retire and in pretest against a taxation and tariff system which could be shown to favor the rich* should the Democratic party put Up as a shihing target the League of Rations issue on which it had, been disastrously defeated in 1920 or the Elan issue which would serve only to divide it irrevocably?
The Convention had. hardly mot, however, when all these hopes of peace ond quiet passed into the discord and both the personal and the political issues in the party were laid bare before a national spotlight. Me Adoo and Sihith were seen to be in a desperate death-struggle attended by faithful, almost fanatic followers; the religious issue as represented by the Eu Elux Elan was thrown before the country in an outburst more intense than any issue had ever evoked since slavery; the League of Rations issue, which was thought quietly slumbering, broke out into an open struggle of the most dramatic sort) and the carefully oiled program of outraged denunciation of Republican deviltries wa3 let drop tu the lev; estate of mere ritual and formalism.
The Democratic party thoroughly revealed itself as a divided, three-sided, more or less incongruous and distracted political oiganiaation made up of vastly different and perhaps irreconcilable elements, yet free, independent, unbossod, and lovable fer its very waywardness. There are within it, first the old Colonial Southerners with their almost feudal ideas towards their fermer slaves, towards their rapidly increasing industrial population, towards change in general; second, the prédominâtly Irish-Oatholie Rothernors who aro resentful toward their Republican neighoours both because of a social and financial inferiority and second because of religion; and finally, the more progressive Westerners, with their Yankee traditions and their predominantly agrieultnral interests„
Ro sooner had the Convention assembled than this division stood forth in all its dangers. The Eu Elux Elan issue split the delegates along religious lines for the first time in American history, Passions ran high; religious bigotry was rampant; sectional and racial animosity threatened a rift apparently irreparable. No one could have felt the atmosphere of those sessions without the conviction that this Convention, unlike all previous, gatherings, was touching real issues, and without the uneasy feeling that a new and dangerous element was encering into American politics.
The Eu Elux Elan is the euphonious name cf a secret Southern order wnich originated years ago to terrorize the negro agams ovorstopuing his position and which took its name	°
metallic cocking and firing, of a gun. Symbolized in the pu mind with bards of hooded, masked men riding at nighc, carrying
~3-
out their ideas of social order without any pretence of lav;, known to have committed lynchings, hangings, and tarrings, the Klan ife generally accepted as standing for lawlessness, oppression, and terrorization, long confined to the South, with its negro problem, it Jumped several years ago clear across the country t« Oregon, where it to'k form in anti-Catholic movements, particularly in outlawing parochial schools, Since then, it has spread in other states with a degree of rapidity which it is almost impossible to measure but which has attracted an immense publicity as a threat or an index of bigotry of all sorts.
The. Republicans at Cleveland had glossed over this issue 'but the ¿temnerats at Rev; Ye-rk, composed as they were of Southern Klaners and. Rortnern-ir.ish Oatholic, cr-anhed fcnto it headfirst. Catholic was thrown against Protestant; North against South; litoral against conservative; candidate against candidate. Governor Smith's forces, commanding the northeastern Catholic states, stood as the bulwark against the Klan, while MeAdoo, dospito all his efforts, seemed to be tarred by the Klan support.
No debate so bitter and so fundamental has featured an American Convention since the Civil War. While everyone seemed agreed that secret terroristic societies Should be denounced and religious and personal liberty reinforced, there was a powerful minority consisting of the Smith followers and the radicals who wished the Klan outlawed by name. Strangely enough, however, William Jennings Bryan, who otherwise was a fallen god throughout the Convention, made the best and perhaps the determining speeoh against this policy, saying first that ho would not give such an outrageous organization the dignity and advertisement of mentioning it in the platform, second that the great Catholic Church needed no party declaration to protect it and third that American political life ought to be free of religious questions.
That viewpoint won, The Klan was not mentioned by namo but was condemned in every other possible way. The scars of the conflict, however, cut “¡cry deep. The Smith faction stood implacable against any Klan candidate; MeAdoo was peobably desperately injured by the ill-will created; and the delegates as a whole wero given the feeling of a fundamental disunion which must either be cured or Qlse kill the Democratic party as it exists today. No one can contemplate this aspect of American public life without grave concern for the future.
Equally with the Klan, the League of Nations, issue refused to lie dormant. The regular politicians, particularly the Senate group as symbolized by Senators Pittman, Caraway,
Walsh of Massachuzotts and Hitchcock, all of whom had suffered in previous League struggles, and the group headed by Bryan, wanted to skip past this issue, concentrating Democratic fire on Republican corruption and Republican catering to the rich in the taxation and tariff policies, and leaving the Republicans no shining tar gee such as the League by which they would divert public interest from their own short-oomings, This, obviously was good political strategy, for the Democrats had a wealth of destructive criticism to heap on their opponents and needed only to keep the offensive, without giving the Republicans a point of attack. So the Lnague , which had been the heart of the 1920 campaign, was to be glossed over.
-4-
But the political leaders reckoned without Newton Baker end the league group, Months ago Mr. Baker determined to core to the convention to fight a lone hand, if need he, for a straight Leagu plank. Ee accordingly took separate headquarters in No-.- York, place on the Hosolutions Oommittee, and made his clans to carry his struggle to the floor of the Convention. Many others gathered about h im..
o
won a
ho fight in the Resolutions Committeo proved unozpeote'ly hitter.
impression,perhaps,was
t V.	!QT(	3 held
You	1 n g,	twho, ■
S 0	of	recen
.pi '	te	cl ear;
r n	définit'	
made h]? Owen caution beca advised a co America took
Nor several sessions befo T a i t a r e solutio n o i-Young’s point of view, an Association and offo h y i Jr . Luc k i n g,	;1 o r d
in which the gi ■'hile favering the
T,
¡ague, urge*
policy of
alliances en	d	tendencies	in 1	lurope and
,v a-way of al stop.	1	doubts and	u no-	rtaintics
the Committc		labored wi	th re	Sul G S » Iu
erod by 3era	to	r Cara, ‘/a./	M J. -) i j £g	t he 1 i n 3¡
}3 O X
outricht resolution drawn by Non-Partisan
re a by Bake] 1 s attorney
and >■ plan for a referendum offered which at the outset received the support of only 6 of the 52 members. On Friday, the debate car. •. to a deadlock; that night Norman Mavis and others worked till o a.m. on a new league plank; at hino tho foil owing morning Baker acocote 1 that plank, discarding his previous one; during a session that dp the Committee agreed to that plank, provided, it carried i'ith it the referendum idea, which previously had had practically no support and which was anathema to Baker.
fill s
: omror om i
ra.
t h e gr e n t m e jority of the Comm, it toe. It
secured the support ox many Leaguers because of its unqualified
endorsement of the league and the statement that ther<
;oul & bo no
substitute; it secured the support of the politicians because the referendum, idea seemed to put the league out of the next campaign;and it appealed to e small group of sincere people who really believe that America cannot go into the League ns long as the league is a partisan issue but that she would go in at once if a direct vote could be taken.
ought this	proros;j
many people	clair:
Ct-etes in y	ears.
st sobbed.	
on the oren floor of the
as the greatest public address Tho huge crowd yelled,cheered,
Newton Baker :l Convention in what made in the United
and at moments almost sobbed. Many there were during Baker's bursts cf emotion who followed him. with tears in their eyes. Never did a man so rack and tear himself; never did an orator moro truly give his whole soul to a speech the3 did. Baker in this final, emotional climax to six days and nights without sleep.
Baker omitted no effort of to win his audience. He made the referendum which displays I
orator:
of emotion, of cold reason,
■n attack on the ;he most cutting
constitutionality of logic; he made an
emotional plea	against we	r such ? a	could, corr.e	only	11’	om a man of
pacifist temper	ament who	had seen	hundreds of	men	dio	whom. he had
himself ordered	into the	trenches ;	he closed	with	et n	invoc? tion Oi
the spirit of "J	'oodrow 'Til	son which	was so sup	erbly	0 0	autiful that
the whole vast	audience w	ras hushed	. and many f	.cos	lin	od with tears.
But it was to no avail. The isonic had "boon decided in advance against him. Delegates who admitted that Baker’s was the supreme effort of oratory within their memory nevertheless did not follow his political judgmento Respecting, almost rovorring the man himself, they folt'his 'views to ho unwise or at least inexpedient. Unfortunately, too, Baker did himself alienate some hy the very intensity of his feeling that the referendum was a "betrayal of Y/ilson and that only his own viewpoint was a correct interpretation of the fallen loader'o.
The referendum to one. A very few are regard it as fant regard it with
hold, for, even if John U- JJavi that he is too much cf
, accordingly, was voted hy about two for it on its merits; a larger number
/aotic; hut by indifference. Almo Di
ho said tc tread setting £
:ar the largest number t certainly were elected, constitutional
o:
all
his
inch
wa
no
through
?fth
it	wi 11	never	b
i t	can .	sa f al-	•r
li.	■wyor	to So.	3 k
f.jj. the la by ung nd unprecedented
oi d
ifficultie
venturo
proted League.
Th
-i m
Ho
th
referendum is generally and quite rightly inter, relaxing hy the Democrats of their support of the longer are they willing to die for it= uite on me contrary their political loaders Would he glad enough to" divide it with their opponents» Many. probably most of them will continue tô support it, will regard it with affection an orphan child, hut some others, such as Walsh of Massachusetts, who have always opposed it, will regard the Convention as halving released them from any shred of party loyalty to this causec
1 ?
o Cl
This result is both a loss and a gain. It is a loss in that one of the great parties is no longer committed to a thi.ck-and~thin support of the League; again in that the other groat party can now novo more openly towards tho League without appearing to surrender. Hour years ago, the Democrats were extravagantly against; this year tho Democrats will bo mildly for and the Republicans more Or loss complacent. ‘The Democrats will still feature the League, as of Course they would have to under the leadership of John w. Davis, but their sponsorship will ho winsome rather than militant.
This brings us back to a strange but fundamental fact in American life, namely that tho League of Rations is far more consonant with the Republican than with tho Donocraticparty*
The Republican party is the party of Big Business, of Mali Street of world interest, of financial imperialism, the party which ' fought tho Spanish war, Which has expanded into tho Caribbean, which contains tho older, morgcultured, more travelled elements in American life. The Democrats on the other hand arc tho younger, newer party based on states1 rights, local solf-govcrament, and opposition to federalization, and arc far more interest in domestic than Ï& foreign policies. A party so divided within itself must devote all its energies to internal union and can hardly bo expected to maintain an active foreign policy. Too often it cannot bo stated that President •■ilson and tho war completely reversed the foreign policies of tho two major -American parties.
Tneso two issues of tho Mian and the League decided , th. Convention turned to selecting a candidate. 'One hundred and thro times tho ’coil-call of tho states was called, a figure never even approached before. The three main groupings in the Convention,
Irish-Catholic North, Conservative South, and Progressive West, hold each other orí in-a death-struggle«‘ McAdoo, with from 400 to 530 votes and the support of the fast, refused to admit that he could not secure c. two-thirds; Smith, with his almost constant one-third strength, clung on to keep his veto and in hopes of a stampede; the South, with its scattered votes for Davis, 1. oh in son, Glass. Underwood, refused to go to either candidato to make tho nocossary twc-t'hiras.
Day after day, evening after evening, the Convention wont through this,' du 11 monotonous ropo tition, the votes changing only very slightly, the delegates "becoming more and more nerve-worn in the heat, and the country more and more disgusted in the distance. Very shortly everyone admitted that neither lie .hi oo nor Smith could "bo nominated, that each held the death sentcnco of tho other, and that a compromiso must "bo sought. Proposal fter proposal was unsuccessfully malo, however, till it seemed that oven a compromise might ho impossible.
finally, however, came tho break. V/hen all else failed, when"hope was almost gone, when the party loaders appeared bankrupt, tho Convention apparently took matters into its own hands, end began the piling up of votes which finally led to the nomination of John W. Davis on the 103rd ballot- - by acclamation" as the Chairman, without a touch, of humour, called it. In other words tho Convention, having exhausted its patience with the special candidates, came back at last to the men it would undoubted ly have nominated at the beginning if it had not boon for the fear of his connection with J.P, Morgan.
John M» Davis will certainly bo tho strongest man tho Democrats could have nominated. Els first action was to placate Bryan, who had been bitterly opposed to him, by forcing the nomination for vice-president of Bryan's brother, now governor of Nebraska and of considerable strength in the West. Similarly, Governor Smith appeared before tho Conventi on "right after his nomination to promise him his fullest support, which, if given , nay moan victory in Dew York. McAdoo held off for some time, but finally, just before sailing for Sttrope, saw Davis to promise his support when he returns in September.'
This this Convention, which began in such an unparalleled deadlock and which cut so deep into all the weak spots of the Democratic party, culminated in a choice which bids fair to heal over many of its wounds. Davis is wise, conciliatory, and popular; he has already had a tremendous response; nd it is not at all unlikely that os time goes on the party will be the better rather than the worse for its great crisis in Now York.
Predictions as to this moment. One thing is campaign is sure to bo on Coolidge and Davis, Dawes
tho Pall outcono certain, however, i higher loval than
would bo unwise at and that is that tho
ny in many yean
and
on
xro all fine typos of men who
m
be Counted upon to fight hard but clean. Either ticket, if
elected, would give the country a good government and a more active foreign policy than during tho past four years.
The uncertain element is, of course, LaFollotte. He seems to be conceded 5 northwestern states, which would give him a considerable strength in the electoral college and might, if Coolidge and Davis run close, as they probably will, prevent either from securing a majority and thus throw the election into the House of Representatives. Here the States.,, voting as units are practically evenly divided so that again no election might take place. In that case whoever is chosen as vice-president would become president and might very well be Mr, Bryan, whom it is possible the la Follette group will also place on their ticket. ( I understand now this is very unlikely ).
However, that may be, it is clear that the United States has entered upon a campaign unparallelled in her history and almost unpredictable in its outcome.
LEAGUE Of NATIOITS
Coniic3ential Circular IV.
1924.
Geneva,
November 24111,19 24.
Recommendations on the Preparation of Texts of Conventions.
The attached draft circular is distributed to Under Secretaries General and Directors for their consideration.
The Acting Secretary General will be glad if ecu observations which they may desire to make may be submitted to the Legal Section if possible within a fortnight, i.e. before December 6th, 1924i
Draft Confidential circular to be considered by the Under Secretaries General and the Directors.
RECOIl'iLUD-iTIOES ON THE PREPARATION OP Tf.TS 0? CCITVLITTIOKS,.
Note by the SEORSTARY-GANAR
My attention has been drawn to the desirability of issuing recommendations for the guidance of Sections which have responsibility for the texts of interni tional agreements negotiated and drafted with the assistance of the Secretariat.
The following recommendations are made on this subject: -1) PAAP;i. A TIC IT OP TJXT
fa) A single official should be designate:» by the responsible Section to take general responsibility for the completeness of the text. If there is a drafting committee of delegates he might well be the Secretary of that committee. If the agreement is put together in committees working separately, he will receive
the clauses dic.ftea by the Committees and he responsible fox their being included in the final te t of the agreement. Re will be responsible for certifying, alien the final text is ready, that the rules made to ensure its completeness and ccuracy have in all essentials been complied with. The initials of the members of section who collaborated in the work should be obtained to those parts of the work in which they have assisted.
{b} A tic nslator familiar with both official languages should be attached to the conference with Che special duty of being responsible for the translation, or provisional translation.
of clauses adopte		in one la	nguage only.		
(o)	The section	generally	re eponsib1e ioi the	confe	re nee
should	at an early	stage ask	the Legal Section to	dele	ga t e a
member of the latter to co-operate in the preparation of the draft, with special reference to the decision of any legal questions arising in the draft and the security of accuracy in the drafting.
(d)	Care should be taxen to avoid having to transcribe corrections and amendments from one cosy of -• document to another.
As soon as possible a single cosy of the test in each official language should he taken as the basis of work.
2) IKCRFRIRbSKT V .RIRIC^TIOR Of JI1TAL TxkT
If possible, a member of the secretariat who has not been engaged in the preparation of the draft should give his assistance in reading through, in both languages, the final text of the document. Such an independent study will often detect mistakes which are not noticed by. pusans too familiar with the text in question.
3 ) BRhPAKATIOh OIT COP Y Tüa SIGNATURE
fa} ’Then the material provisions of an international egrcement have been settler', a special copy fo> signature should be prepared..- It should be printed, or at least carefully type-writ ten, on good paper. In some c ses in the past, -where special reasons rendered this unavoidable, signatures have been amended to a reneoed document, or signatures from different plenipotentiarie8 have been obtained on different copies of the agreement. Such practices are incorrect and highly undesirable. Lfforts should be made to induce delegates to realise that a. reasonable time must be allowed for the preparation of a cloar^opy of the agreement suitable for signature.
(b) The precedents which have been established with regard to the description of parties to an agreement, the order in which they are to be named, the forra to be given to agreements which are concluded in both official languages, (so that both languages are authoritative) and, generally with regard to all formal parts of an agreement, should be carefully followed. On these -,oi Îlb8 cl t í stance should be obtained from the Legal Section, which will give the assistance of their Treaty Registration Branch and orders for printing should be given in consultation with this ranch. The Legal Section should of course, be warned a sufficient time in ¿.dvaneo of the assistance required from it. They should also be consulted as to any noces '.ary formalities in regard to signature.
4)	3311033 aPIEAHIES IE lIGKAfUIih COPY.
However careful the proof-reading, misprints may always creep into the document at the last moment. Consequently the actual document which is to be signed must be carefully read through before signature. If mistakes are detected and a reprint is not possible or is not considered necessary, the necessary corrections should be made in the text before any signatures are given and should be authenticated as follows:
a)	Where the correction is a correction of an obvious misprint and where the parties to the agreement are not too numerous, it is sufficient that the correction should be initialled in the margin by the persons signing.
b)	Where the corrections are not 'corrections of obvious mistakes, or where the parties are too numerous for initialling in the margin to be possible, a statement should be drawn up
and attached to the copy of the agreement which is signed stating, with reference to page and line throughout, that the corrections in question were made before signature. 1’his statement should be signed by all the parties to the agreement at the same time as they sign the agreement itself, fho following formula may be used according to the nature of the corrections made:
"Statement of corrections made in the text
of
be fore s ignat ure .n
~5~
The following corrections were introduced into the
text or the above-mentioned instrument in............
ink before its signature:
Page..........line.....The following words........
(were struck out
(were inserted after the words....
.................. (and before the words...............
(were replaced by the words.......
Date................
Signed..............
Ko modification should be made in documents after the ir s igna t ure .
5 )	o ■' OOPI-io :101 ChETI HCrflOK .
Almost invariably certified true copies of agreements with which the Secretariat is connected have to be sent to parties or Members of the League. These are to be prepared on the responsibility of the Legal section, which will consult the Section concerned.
These copies must be an entirely faithful and complete duplicate of the text which has been signed. Ko part of the text may be omitted or abbreviated. The copies must have annexed to them any documents which are incorporated by reference in their text so as to be essential to the proper interpretation of its provisions. The only changes in the copy printed for certification will be:
a) possibly the addition of distribution reference headings and, in certain eases, a title. The title should always be chosen very carefully, so as to offer no matter for possible discussion if questions of interpretation subsequently arise.
*-6—
b) The addition at the end of the formula of certification.
Wherever possible, copies for certification should be printed off at the earliest possible opportunity with the type liich was set up to print the signature copy, any corrections
made in that	c opy b e f o re s igna t are	will, 01	course, be et	fee ted.
Where the eopias for certification		cannot b	e printed off	unt il
after, for er	ample, the agreement i	ias come	into force, or	the.
period during	wh ich si rns t u r c s a r o	a b i ov/ab 1	o is at sn end	, the
type can, o course, be used for the Ol’vICI.a. JOühlb,!., f. uimfY
ill 2 »3 or	other	purposes ;	b U u	it must be rea.	1 is eel	tlia t	the
U "tr ilejf tî	the t	ipe ha s t o	s ome	estent been r:	• S G b	for	such
pones	cannot	interfere	with	the nece: a it y	of making		the
copies which are to be certified entirely faithful and complete duplicates of the agreement as signed.
6)	1. .faTPfq
No international agreement which ia in the custody of the Secretariat should be reprinted in the O.f/IGL.*! JOURNAL, or in any other form, without reference being made to the Legal section whose Treaty legist ration Branca, will assure that the correct tent is being used, and any signatures included are up
to date, etc.
A copy of the present note is to be sent by the Registry to the responsible section before the opening of the conference on each occasion on which a conference is convened under the auspices of the League, in order that the recommendations imde in it may be borne in mind in the organisation of the secretariat of the conference.
it .11.24
LEAGUE OF NATIONS.
Confidential Circular 18 192^ Geneva,
November 25th 1924
THE UÏÏITED STATES AND THE LEAGUE OF MATIONS
The relationship of the United States to the League Of Nations is steadily improving and will continue to improve during'the next ' four years of President Coolidge^ administration. It is, indeed, on the upward swing of a long evolution which started four years ago, has made progress over a good part of the arc, and will in thé next four years cover much of the remaining distance.
'Then President Ear ding came ihto office in 1920, his overwhelming victory was .generally, though wrongly, oonoeded as a popular verdict against the League. For the first eight months of his administration, the United States ignored the League even to'the extent of refusing to acknov/ledge its communications. Lower than this the swing oould not have gone.
After publicity of this fact, however, a turn came when 14 communications were answered in one mail. The answers were, however, purely perfunctorj’-. Two or throe months later, came another swing, a very small one, indeed, hut still wOfth noting, when the State Department, while unable to co-operate in the v/ork as to traffio in women and children, expressed‘its sympathjr with what the League was doing in that field*
A few months later came another move forward. An ' observer was sent to the Anthrax Committee of the International Labour Office, a trifling thing in itself but a precedent for American participation in League work. To summarize in a sentence, this policy was since developed until the United States has sent most active representatives to most of the League*s humanitarian committees and observers to several others. Amongst them may be mentioned the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committed of the House of Representatives to the Advisors’- Committee, the Assembly Committee, and the General Conference on Opium; the head of the Childrenrs Bureau of the Department of Labor on the Committee on Traffic in Women and Children; the Surgeon-General of the United States as vice-president of the Health Committee; the present Under-Secretary of State to thé discussions on the arms traffic; a member of the diplomatie éervi'ce to the Financial Committee and ^the Council sub-committee on the Greek loan; a charge draffaires to'the Obscene Literature Conference; and nobservers” to the two general Conferences on Customs Formalities' and Freedom of Communications and Transit. Congress, meantime, has passed legislation in connection with
-1-
the mstrian and Hungarian relief schemes; has approved special treaties recognizing the mandates, and has before'it the Admi ni s t r at i on * s proposal for membership in the Court.
Unofficial American co-operation has rone oven further. The Rockefeller Health Board has just noted another $¿250,000 to the .heague*s health worlc; the Social Hygiene Bureau $¿75 000 to the white slave inquiry; the dimeric an Society of International haw 015,000 for the Treaty Berios; friends in Hew York 010.000 for the Leaguers relief to ...lbania; the Bed Cross and Hear Hast Belief about 070 000 to co-operation with the League as to Constantinople refugees. Individual Americans have held important posts, Hlihu Hoot on the Hague Jurists Committee, John Bassett Lloore as a judge of the Court, former .mb as sad or R Ileus on the ..aland Islands Commission, former ambassador Horgenthfu as ""’resident of the Creek Hefugee Settlement Commission., former Under -Secret ary of State ITorrann Davis as -resident of the lie me 1 Commission, Colonel Snow as President of the Tiro or ts Committee on white slavery, not to mention imny others.
The outstanding fact about the last election is that the league did not figure in it to any great extent. The' Republican platform, while fulminating against the entanglements of the League, went out of its way to praise some of its work, though not by name. Republican orators, while carefully refraining from'attacking the Leaguo,'openly claimed credit for the co-oner at ion noted above, i.r .Hushes twice laid special emphasis’ on the contention that the League was not an issue in the campaign. The Republicans wore obviously quite nettled at Ir . Davis for continually bringing it into his speeches.
lleanwhile the Democratic platform, while praising the League effusively, abandoned its outright sunnort of the League by proposing a national referendum upon it. However this was intended, it was generally viewed as a cooling of the party on what had previously boon its greatest issue. Democratic orators, oreout Ir. Davis, largely passod over the league as .an issue outside the campaign.
The League has, therefore, progressed a long way towards going out of politics . ’Both parties have abandoned their irreconcilable attitude. The Republicans are opposed to membership but favorable to co-operation,while the Democrats are still favorable to membership but content with co-operation.
p-f-
j 1 Cv c»
Tlie most surprising indication of this change is whereas four years ago Hr. Hardin-1 s overwhelming victory was everywhere accepted as a verdict against the League. almost nowhere has a similar intorpretation equally overwhelming victory for Hr. was fought and won on other issues.
been pi.'.cod on this year’s Coolidgo, The election
-2-
Consequently, the "bitterness lias largely gone from the league issue, neither side is so irreconcilable. Both can work towards a corsmonsense settlement of a vexing matter, ¡fore and more 'that settlement mill be left in the hands of the ihrecutive.
ITo doubt can be raised that the Executive is vastly more favorable to the League than thé Hording Executive which came into office "four years ago. Hr. Coolidge is much better disposed than Hr. Harding; he is much more sympathetic with international"action, and far less dominated by a Senate clique. also, he has behind, him four years of progross towards‘the League and can begin with an open and avowed policy of co-operation. In the same wa» Hr. HughesT attitude can he very much more helpful than before .
Similarly, the Senate has improved greatly. The so-called Irreconcilable group has been devastated. Of the dozen or so men who completely befogged the League situation in 1920, Senators Lodge and Brandegee are dead, HcCorniek, PftLsh and Shields have been defeated for re-election, Hiram Johnson and Reed have been rejected by their own parties as presidential aspirants, and Hoses was not returned on his own state delegation.
Hevertholess, the Senate remains the block to any really complete international action by the United States. The chairmanship Of the foreign Relations Committee passes to Senator Borah, an honest opponent but a man unfamiliar with Burope. Johnson and Hoses are still on the Foreign Relations Committee but Lodge, HcCormick and Brandegee, the three most violent members, will undoubtedly be replaced by more moderate men. The eomplesi&n of this very powerful committee will be greatly improved, hut no decisive action bah be omoctod from it *
Public opinion also has improved. The one sole and entire reason for this fact has been that the nations of Burope refused to allow the League to die. Instead, they developed and strengthened it. The old shibboleth, which was unbelievably widespread in the United States, that the League was dead, or at least dormant, has passed into the diBoard. The League is now recognised everywhere as a, real force in intornationa.l life.
That, it cannot bo too strongly stressed, is the beginning of the end of hnori can isolation. America loves success. The stronger the League becomes, therefore, the more certain America is to find, indeed some day to force, her way into it.	", .hat
-ill most repel her is weakness or indecision.
Uith this improvement in the public standing of the League ;;nd with the general acceptance that America can co-oporato ■1thout joining, rill come an increase in the activity of prole ague friends. They now have a vast amount to point to in tho
in the accoraplishments of the league and'a strong anchor to cling to in the policy of tho government. I*or the nest few years their policy will he, first, education to the facts of the league and, second, infiltration of the United States into just as many league activities as possible .
This should not ho difficult, hot only has the administration permanently associated itself with many activities already hut has agreed in advance to go to a general conference on the traffic in arms, and also, if the terms are right to the main conference on disarmament. lió doubt there can he a similar progress in other activities.
The League friends in .America are the "best people of the country. The Churches ere for it; the University circles; the American Federation of labor; commercial and financial circles as shown by the United States Chamber of Commcrco and what is hnown as Wall Street, except for a small group in the national If. nuf acturers Association'which fears the International Labour Office as Bolshevist, The enemies of tho League are the extreme nationalist press, such as the He are't, Ilunsey and Chicago Tribune papers, and a handful of politicians who redo temperarily to personal power on a demagogic issue and who forced the Hepublican party to abandon its own traditions as the great Amerioc.n party of world intoae s t and effort.
The ultimate outcome cannot he in doubt. Here and more tho United States is affected by League action and desirous of using the League to further it s'own nurposcs. The United States'will eventually join, enter, or associate with the league, first because tho League is dealing and will still more deal with guest ions of interest to -America, and second,' because the Locguo is grounded on America’s fundamenti.1 principles of arbitration, conciliation, law, economic equality, permanent conference, and universal rather than partial assoc-i ation.
But this 'result will not come at once. It wall talco sever 1 years. In the meantime, tho road to it lies through so increasing wrierica Ts contacts with the League that very soon she will find herself half ini Uuch can be done in the next year or two along those lines.	' 'ith vise direction, America
can bo brought to associate-' herself to so great a degree with these activities of tho League which interest her that for all practical purposes her absence from complete membership will not be felt.
Only two policies are essential to this end:
1. A confident, self-assured development of the League as tho main instrument for all general international interests .
E. Continued invitation to the United States to J_«S soci d to her so It ^ cvS o coc^si oil o. a isos, with each specific activity of the league which interests her or which is of .goner«'1 international import.