MINUTES OF THE DIRECTORS' MEETINGS,
CONFIDENTIAL CIRCULARS
1923
MINUTES OP THE DIRECTORS' MEETINGS
1923
nos 68-101
r
/ ft
'9i9
LEAGUE OF NnTIQKS.
32
JONFILENTIAL	Directors Meeting 68
Distributed to	Geneva,
Jnd er - Seer etarie s_ Ge_ner al
and Directors.	January 11th,192b.
MINUTES OF DIRECTORS1 MEETING- HELD ON WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10th, 1523.
Pr ssent: -
Secretary-General. Professor Attolico.
Dr. Nitobe.
Sir Herbert Ames.
M. Mantoux.
If. Comert Dr. Ra.jchman.
Professor Rappard,
Dr. Van Hamel Colonel Hiam.
Captain Gilchrist.
M. Derm's.
Mr. Nixon.
M. Liao. si i -s g- s.
Mr . v/a 11 e r s (Secretary)
1.	THE SECRETARY-GENERAL said that he had heard from Messieurs
Hymans and Quinones de Leon that they could n.t arrive for the Council until the 26th. As there were many subjects which would require preliminary negotiations, it was his inor ticn to write tc the President suggesting to him that, while '¡he moating proper-should not, in these circumstances, begin, till the 26bh. the date cf the 25th, which had been announced, should not he changed, and the Austrian Sub-Committee should stick to the 2?rd. The other Members of the Council would, cf course, have the circumstances explained to them privately.
The French Representative would preside at the meeting, and M. Bourgeois, whose health would, not allow him to come to Geneva, had taken certain informal steps with a view to the meeting being held at Paris. The Secretary-General had not been able to take
any position in the matter, in view of the/exfcra expense involved
great >/
71 ihe holding at Paris of an ordinary meeting with a long agenda.
He/
r*
— —
-G thought, however, that if LI. Bourgeois were able to preside over a Meeting at Paris, it was likely that his colleagues would agree to its 3eing held there. He was -very sorry to hear that it was possible that {¡;, Bourgeois’ health would, in any case, not. permit him to attend the ¡neeting, and in that case there would, of course, be no ground for hold-link it elsewhere than in Geneva.
He referred to the circular which had been issued, containing ¡tentative suggestions for a certain re-distribution of the duties of Rapporteur to the Council on various subjects. Such re-distribution ¡seemed necessary, in view of the faet that there were two new Members, ind that the French Representative was somewhat overburdened. He ¡thought it necessary to prepare a list, in case the Council should ask ¡the Secretary-General to submit one for its consideration.
The list circulated was, after some discussion, agreed to, lit being understood that questions concerning the Saar and Danzig jvvould very probably, after the next tut on Council Meeting, be dealt pith by a Council Commissi:n. Cues.ions concerning Article 2d of the Covenant were added to the list, the suggested Rapporteur being the ¡Spanish Representative.
TH5 SECRETARY-G-EHDRAL said that he thought the general ¡situation at Lausanne was not ba3 as regards the securing of peace, and that a steady tendency seemed to be manifesting itself towards giving work to the League.
THE SECRETARY-G-j-HER.iT. said that a pr oposal had been made at |a previous meeting that there should be a periodical meeting at the Secretariat of the Permanent Representatives accredited by various
*
Members to reside in Geneva. .Yhen it came to putting the matter into (execution he had held his hand, feeling that such meetings would be |mere likely to do harm than good and might lead to embarrassing discussions.
~3~
II. UAETOUZ	said ho	strongly agreed. Eo th
mootings \/ould	load nowh	re, and could have harnrf
II, COIF TIT	said hie	original suggestion was
s wc i a 1 meeting	of these	Kcpresentatives before
to explain the	pro gramme	to thorn, so that, on the
; ought such
their Delegations, they should he able to she;; a. proper knowledge of affairs»
It was generally agreed that, hilo periodical meetings vrore undesirable, such a special mooting before the Assembly v;as not open to any objection,
gROJSS'.OK AT TO hi CO thought that a similar meeting before the nee ting of the T.I1.C. - if that took place in Genera - might also bo a good plan. All that nattered was that the programme of the meeting should be laid don by the Soeretary—General•
4.	TE5 SHChOTAhY-GAITITRAl referred to the great interest of, and the encouragement cent- ined in Hr. Sweet-ser3s report on his American visit, whi ch had boon circulated.
5.	II. ~IAIITOUX said that his Section’s work for the next Council consisted mainly of two subj cts:
(ai Vilna: This question he hoped might be finally disposed of at the next meeting, at any nto under its present form. This would bo the ease if the Council ere ¿able to make d jf in i to rocornm andati ons regard inf;:
(i)	the substitution of a line cf demarcation
for the existing neutral zone: and
(ii)	the treatment of the non-Dolish population
of the contested, territory.
If those recommendations wero rejected by one side or the other, the Council could refuse to consider them any further in their present form. Of course wo could not provide against the
9	» t, O ©	3
4
possibility of now differences arising*.
io] Albania: It was hoped that a definite proposal might shortly he made to the Council for the appointment of a
F inan c i a 1 Ad v i s e r o	I lean while tho	Albanian Go	ve ram cut had asked
for other advisers,	Ocge on Public	PorksLaw,	Bducaticn and
Gendarmerieo Host	of theso were,	ho thou "ht, u	premature, in
view of the country*	s financial situation, but		it might not bo
premature to begin working on the establishment o: system, in which foreigners could have confidence.
legal
BRQPHSb GR Ax'IOLICO said that the Italian Goromnent intended to take an active part in the work of the Leagueend the changes in the Italian Representative on the Cornell and in certain Commissions wore the outcome of this intent ion»
LT:„ HITOBB said that the recent mootings in Paris had shewn that the programme of the Committee on Intellectual Cooperation was neither an unpractical nor an expensive one« Its Plan of work would involve little eoroondituro to the league, ew-.
as regards the quostion of an Inter-University Bureau, it
s J. O.
would be to indreo the establishment- in various countries ox a Bureau to deal with Inter-University questions. The Secretariat would act merely as a liaison between such Bureaux:„	In the
sane way„ as regards the C/ii stionnaires connected v/ith the question of tho intellectucal positi n in all the different countries, \hile it was true that a largo number of questionnaires were being despatched, the Committee did not expect to get more than 10¡0 of answers.
TUB SBCRiiTARY-GRliBEhl said this information v/as a relief to him, as the Sub-Committee*s Report had he admitted, caused him some alarm. Ho had feared not only that the answers to tho questionnaires might be too numerous and voluminous to be
5
copod r/ith without a larger organisation than had been provided for, 'out also that there seemed a danger of arousing anticipation of some groat ;action "07 the I or mo in favour uf the in t ell actual workers of all countries - anticipation which ould almost certainly bo disappointed when the noo:t Assembly tackled the question of finance.
FSOFESSCB BAFFAED emphasised the seme p into
I.	9, HITOBE said he had discussed it with 11» BEEGSOIT, and 11. DEBTEE!!, both of whom felt there v/as no danger of such anticipations being aroused.
II.	IIAlAFilAG-A said that Lord Eobort Cecil had circulated to the members of the Lf.C. a detailed development of his Guarantees Scheme, in order that it night be fully discussed at the ne::t meeting. Lord Eobort had wished that meeting to take place on January 16 th, but when he (1!, 1 lads rings.) arrived in Paris, he hod found it impossible to get into touch with LI. Viviani. The question of date thus hen not been settled, and it «could not now bo on the 16th. If it were to be in Geneva, Messieurs Oadegeest and Jouhaux had expressed the hope that it 'would be in the neighbourhood of February 6th, as they wore coming then for the meeting of the International Lchour Office Governing Body.
After some discussion, there seemed to be a general accord that February 5th was about the best date.
IB, BAJCIfLAI! said hie Health Committee was in session, and the session was very dull. The previous day the International Health Commission, set up by the Genoa Conference - i.e. the league Commission, plus a representative of the P.ussian Soviet Government - had met.Dr. Siernashko after visiting the Delegation at Lausanne to discuss the matter, hed made a statement which was
9	• •	*	4
6
a considerable advance on any that had cone from Russia before, in that ho did not confine himself to the question of -.-.het help the Russian Authorities could yet from the league Epidemics Commission, and that ho admitted that Russia was a centre cf epidemics. Ee mas asked many questions by members of the Committee, ar.d ho ended by offering the help of the Soviet Government to any action the ' Epidemics Commission could f ■’ take, and by agreeing to consult tho Secretaria t as t. possible co-operation.
(b) The Committee intended to r.r ise the question of I c/ uc roprosentation at tho Pasteur celebrations in fay or June.
(o) In reyard to tho printing of tho aerological Reports, tho situation v;as as follows:
Tlio German edition had been abandoned: tho Trench tort will he published as a supplement to tho "Annul dc lrInstitut P..stour®: tho I ledical Rosoarch Council had offered to publish tho British tort at its own ouponso. Some apparently unjustified doubts hod been raised by tho British representative, hut, he thought that the mt ttor would go through. In reply to the SB CHE '21 RY-GREEKAI, ho said that it was understood that, in any case, it would bo made clear that tho work was tho work of the league„
10.
SIR HERBERT A IBS said that ho
t her. c h t
.:ouId carry on till
February 1st without borrowing ijcncy. Eo asked whether Italy had made up hor mind with reyard to signing and ratifying the first amendment to Article 6 .
PROFESS OR e.TTQRI CO answering in the affirmative, it appoared that the a.greorient of all tho Council members was now secured,
-with tho possible exception cf China.
(b) As regards the appointment of an auditor, !I. Roblomairo h .d had a further breakdown. in health, end II. Ecdorbragt was being asked to act in his stead in consulting tho members of the
e o » t t
7
Supervisory Commission and ro comm and inf names tc the Council.
HR. ITIX01: said the Committoo of Contre, composed of representatives of the Guaranteeing Pavers, would moot simultaneously vith tho Austrian .rub-Corxiitt :>a. 'Jo wore r si:inf the Ilethorl :nds end tho Scandinavian countries ‘ Iso to send representatives.
(b)	ïïho Reparations Commission had info mod us the t D-. nzif had en fronted a moratorium of one year.
(c)	The Economic Committoo was moo tins- on Ja
ry 20th*
• J D HIS raised the c;u stion of . Loaaue cypher.
It was decided that PEOEESS Oh AT TO hi CO should loci: through the reccranondc-tions of tho Socrota: iat Committoo irich had discussed tho matter a year or so ago, and coo what was host to be done in tho interests of economy and secrecy.
. PF.OEESSOP, aAPlVJf) ashed that th e previous decision that tho names and addressee of nombers of Committees, mooting in Geneva, should bo circa luted, might bo strictly carried out.
fb1 Ho was somewhat concerned ns to whether it would bo possible to continue getting worl: of a character involving much time and trouble, done by Conn it toe members if v;o cor Id not make any payment to thorn. A member of the 'l.nd.otos Cemission had recently produced a very long report on tho Laud Tenure System in mandated i.roas, and ho had f-It th. t u corrosaondinv honorarium would not have boon out of pi: ce . This a s i ceco of work done by a man 'ho was not a Gove,mmont official and had not personal interest of any sort in do inf it.
THE SECLEIL'J.Y ■ - GE:~IK..L. and others said that they felt strongly that tlv_ present system should not bo departed from.
LEAGUE OP NATIONS.
MINUTES OF DIRECTORS MELTING HELD OK WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17th,	19 £5.
Ho. 69.
Present:-	Secretary-General
Professor Attolico Er. Hitote Sir Herbert Ames Dr. Hajchman M. Mantoux Dr. van Hamel Dame Rachel Crowdy
Mr.	Gilchrist
Professor Rapperd	
Mr.	Lweetser
Mr.	Ninon
Mr.	Romein
Mr.	'..'alters (Secretary)
THE SECRETAEY GENERAL said that the general political situation seemed black enough, tut it had teen as bad in the past.
As regards the place oi the Council Meeting, the situation was still uncertain. The Secretariat must obviously remain entirely neutral in the question.
M. Rodriguez, of Panama, the third member of the Latin American Liaison Lureau, had arrived. o It seemed likely that the Canton of Geneva would shortly reach a decision about the Armleder property.
If so, we should have to go ahead and carry out the Assembly1s instructions, and we should have the advantage of a little more room.
A discussion followed on the Special Circular regarding Registry papers.
THE SECRETARY GENERAL expressed his strong opinion that it v.ras necessary to keep all official papers in the Registry, which, in the long run, saved much time. He
x who apgligises for the late appearance of these minutes.
'2—
attached the greatest importance to this matter.
PROFESSOR ATTOLICO said that in the Circular he had confined himself to summarising the registry's remarks. His personal opinion, however, was strongly on the same side. Sectional Registries were forbidden, and sectional files ought only to contain papers which were entirely unofficial, ¡Otherwise the confusion resulting when a change took place in the personnel of a Section, was sure to he great and might well have very serious effects on our work. The mere fact that a paper was confidential, was not necessarily a reason to keep it out of the Registry, though, in certain cases, Sections might find it necessary to warn the Registry, in sending- it a paper.
It was quite right not to he too formalistic, hut v;e must not go too far. In the I.L.O. the rules on points of this kind were absolutely rigid. He thought this was a mistake, hut such procedure was sometimes taken into serious consideration by outsider?, and he had the impression that to some extent the contrast between the attitude of the Committee of Control towards the 1.1.0. and ourselves was due to their impression of its exactitude in such matters.
M. HAUTOUX said that in his Section they sent all the papers, such as Professor Attolicc had referred to, to the Registry, hut they kept copies of any paper of importance which might have to be frequently referred to. As regards confidential papers, he took it that Professor Attolico’s remarks did not refer to strictly personal correspondence, which, in many cases, could not be sent to the Registry. Further, whenever a file which was likelyfto be required in the future passed through, a note of its number and subject was made. In this way* the time taken in getting
‘O-
it down from the Registry, when necessary, was reduced to a minimum.
Dr. VJJJ IIE1IEL said that, while agreeing1 in general
with Professor httolico1s view, he wished to draw attention
to
to the other side of the question, viz,/the shortcomings of the Registry:
(a) It frequently toot him two hours to get a payer
which he ashed for.
(b)	files, when sent, were frequently incomplete.
(c)	The present method of filing was, in his opinion, open to criticism. It resulted in important and unimportant papers lying side by side in a file, and letters were frequently entered on separate Jackets which, in his judgment,
might be in the same one.
In the course of the discussion which followed,' those Sections (Health, Economic and financial, and Mandates) which were stated in the Registry memorandum to he irregular in their execution of the rules of the office in this respect, explained the reasons which had led to this, and indicated their intention of more exact execution in the future.
There seemed to he general agreement:
(l) That no alteration in the present regulations was re uired and that it was desirable to carry then out
completely,
(z) That this applied equally to correspondence with members of Commissions, etc. save when such correspondence was of a purely personal character.
(3)	That the plan followed by the Political Section of:
(a) Taking copies of important papers frequently required for reference; and
(h) Uoting the numbers of files of special interest to the Section;
was very sound and might be generally followed.
(4)	That every efiort should he made by Sections to return files to the Registry with as brief delay as possible, thus preventing delays when a paper was ashed for by another Section.
(5)	That hr. Yan Hamel and any other Liwecto r who considered that the methods of the Registry were capable of improvement, should forward a note on the subject to Professor Attolico, who would discuss it with Mr. Leah.
(6)	That as regards the general method of registration now followed, this had been recommended by a representative Committee of the Secretariat, after long discussion, ana it did not seem desirable to reopen the question.
MR. SYEETSER referred to the {telegram which had been received from the new organisation in the United States ior the League, and the reply which had been sent, both of which had been circulated to the Secretariat. The organisation of this body involved for the first time an entirely non-party effort towards American participation in the League.
PEOPESSOB EAPPAKD said that the new Italian Heuresenta-
on	the
¡.tes	que
He	ref e
i sal	of
eferred to the question of the funds at the
It was decided that there should be a meeting consisting of mi. Attolico, Ames, Leppard and Conert to define the competence of the Committee in this matter.
He mentioned that, particularly in German-Switzerland,
there was a very strong feeling that if the Council did not in some way deal at this meeting with the Reparations question, the prestige of the League would suffer a very severe blow. Those who held this view realised that their only method of making it felt was by inducing the Swiss
Government to put the netter forward, as it was entibied to do, and lie "believed that there was very streng pressure "being exercised :n Berne.











I
4 ;i
AGUE o:
.TIOI'TS.
Ho. 70.
MIITUTES
E3DAY
CROPS1 M3ETIHG HELD PIT JA ITUARY Pith, 1923.
Present:-
Professor Attolico.
Dr. ITitobe.
Sir Herbert Ames.
L' r. Colb an.
If. Couert.
II. Han to roc.
Dr. Rajchinan.
Li. Dufour.
It. Denis.
Professor Eappard.
Dr. Van Hamel.
Dame Rachel Crowdy.
II. Ha d aria go.
l.Ir. alters (Secretary)
1.	PROFESSOR ATTODICO said that the decision of a
number of dates ".as the chief result of the previous * week's work. They were as. follows :*•
January 27th: Committee of Control for )
Austrian Guarantees ) All three
)
January 29th: Council and Austrian Sub-) in laris.
Comnittee of the Coun- ) cil.	)
February 9th: Temporary Disarmament ) Geneva.
Commission.
These dates were fixed, but there was one on which he wished to consult the meeting, namely, the date for the economic Conference on Customs Formalities. It was proposed to hold this meeting on October loth, which as the latest date which could be reasonably settled. He would be glad to know whether the Directors approved.
SIR HERBERT A....RS said he thought the date suggested
-2-
v/as a good one: Cl) because some of the temporary Assembly staff coula be retained; and (2) because tho Delegates from some overseas countries might be the saie as for the Assembly. It would coincide with the Labour Conference, but this would not matter, unless we wanted their meeting place.
PROFESSOR ATTQLICQ thought the Glass Room would be better. It was large enough to hold 200 people, and was better from the point of view of work. It was also an advantage to be able to use the neighbouring rooms as Committee rooms. It would be necessary to consider, in good time, the possibility cf enlarging the room by including in it the present antc-chamber.
M. COMERT said that from his point cf view the date suggested was a good one, since the special journalists interested in the Labour Conference would be also interested in this question.
PROFESSOR RAP?ARB pointed cut the extreme nervousness of United States opinion whenever Customs questions came up. It v/as important, therefore, that in giving information for publication concerning this Conference, stress should be laid on the fact that it is to deal not with, national tariff policies, but with the frontier formalities and delays which were the cause of suffering to all alike.
This point v/as generally agreed to.
SIR HER3RRT AMES said that the Committee which was appointed at the last meeting to define the competence of the Free Distribution Committee in relation to the Budget, bad met and had
reached, in halfran-hour, a unanimous conclusion.
He drew the attention of the meeting to the financial situation caused by the demands on the League exchequer made by the I.L.O. The I.L.U. had three sovirces of income, viz*, their proportionate share (rou.hly one-third) of,
(l| contributions received.
(2)	'..orbing c pit I.
(3)	the League 1 s borrowing power.
They have swent the whole of items (l) and (2), .nd of item
«
(5) they have used 800,000 bold Hrmcc out of a total proportionate share of 1,180,000. The remaining 330,000 will probably be borrowed in a very short tine.
By a decision of the Commission of Control, ratified by the assembly, this monoy v.as borrowed not from the banks but from the two-third3 of the working capit .1 which belonged to the Secretariate
Put baldly, the situ ation is that, while we a n collect 80’a to 8G‘/j of cur Budget, and while we have by the very strictest economy in st iff ..nd other lays, reduced our expenditure to approximately this figure, the I.L.O. spent last year 95/S of its budget, .nd there is every reason to expect it will do the same this year. In other \/ords, the possibility of repayment
\
of the money borrowed by it from the working capital, is exceedingly remote, and whereas on December 31st, 1921, our whole working capital was intact and cxi; ted in cash, on December 31st, 1922# about one-third of it h id gone to the Labour Office end had been s cat; and on December 31st, 1923, it seemed likely that more than a million francs more would have gone, ^.t this point the situation would really be extremely serious.
It was, therefore, proposed that the Secretary-General should lay this natter before the Council at the beginning of its meeting; that the Council should ask the Governing Body of the Labour Office, which was meeting simultaneously, to examine the matter; and that Sir Herbert .imes should return Immediately from Paris to ive any necessary explanations to the Governing Body,
Ms COLBAIi said that he was doubtful whether there
wag a sufficiently close collaboration in this matter between the Ir.L^Oo and the Secretariat, and whether the former really understood our point of view in the matter> He wished further to point out that there were a good many Members of the Assembly who were not represented on tho Governing Body of the I-.liOj and these had been, to some extent, debarred from criticising the LL,Oo Budget at the Assembly on tho ground that it had already been passed by the Governing Eoujc.
It was, however, likely that they would adopt a more critical attitude i:i future Assemblies *
DR* VAN HAMEL said he wished to make all reservations cn the question, whether the situation as exposed by Sir Herbert Ames, was an absolutely inevitable result cf the governing texts. The question had not been submitted to his Sections SIR HERBERT AMES promised to give Dro Tan Hamel an early opportunity cf examining the matter from this point of views
"PROFESSOR ATTCLIOO
said that the kernel of the question
lay in two pointsi
(1) A considerably larger percentage o:c the total Budget was being spent than was being collected* This was duo to over »-spending fin proportion to actual available funds) both by the I.LcOo and by the Cour to Obviously this could only go cn for a strictly limited time*
fs) The Secretariat Lad last year pointed out to the Commission of Control the possible advantage of empowering the I.L.Ck to borrow on its own authority from outside sources, instead of from the Secretariat’s share of the working capitals
Tho Commission had decided otherwise, and it might now be well
to explain to them the oGnsequenoes of that decision. It was further desirable to bring the matter to the knowledge of the Court} which, he thought, could be relied upon to understand our' position in the matter, and the inevitable results of the continuation of the present situation beyond a certain point«,
DP.. VAN HAMEL asked on what date the Council was expected to finishc
PP.0FES50H ATTOPICO said he understood that lord Balfour could not stay after February 7th, and that this would, therefore, very likely act as a limiting date^

a
LEAGUE 0? HA TI OHS-,
Confidential«	Directors Meeting Ho. 71.
Ustritutea to ~TTG. s and
ctorsr	Minutes of the Director?.1 Meeting held
on Wednesday, February 7th, 192g.
Present:-
Secretary General M. Avenol Professor Attolico Dr. Hitobe Dr. van Hamel Professor Kappard M. Mantoux Sir Herbert Ames 11. Gomert II. Oolbsn Dr. Rajchnan M. J;fedariaga Sir Arthur Salter
Mr. Walters (Secretary).
1.	The SECRETARY GBHEEaL said that, except for the last day, the Council would have been, on the whole, a good one. It was remarkable that the Press, even including those jci^nalists who knew most about the League, seemed to take much more interest in, and attach more importance to, the inconclusive or unfriendly discussions which took place on Albania and on the polish-lithuanian question, than in the far more important constructive work of the Council on Austria and other questions.
On the last day M. Granting had presented a very innocuous Resolution dealing with the Reparations question, based on	*
Resolution 16 of the assembly - so innocuous, in fact, tint its adoption would perhaps not have done muen good. M. Viviani had contended that the wording of the Assembly Resolution debarred the Council from acting save on the request of the interested Governments, and that no such request having been presented, the proposal could not be accepted, and he himself would be bound to vote against it. M.
Hymans had said that
-2-
his instructions were to vote witii H. Yiviani, adding that, in his opinion, the Reparations question was hound to he submitted in due course to the League, and that it was undesirable for the Council to seem to he asking for it to he submitted to them.
No one else spoke, and Ivu Branting had withdrawn his Resolution, in view of the fact that it was clear that it could not he voted by unani'Tity.
He asked that the fact that M, Brant ing has proposed a resolution should he kept secret, as otherwise M. Brant ing would he exposed to criticism for its withdrawal.
He thought that the general feeling of the Council in the matter was that the question would eventually he submitted to the League, and that the expression of a wish cr opinion by the Council at the present moment -would have little affect either way. M. Branting had subsequently given an interview to the Press, which had been rather r idely reproduced in the British Press, hut did not receive much publicity in France.
He asked all Directors or Sections to see that the necessary action arising out of the Council decisions was put in hand as soon as possible.
The next neoting or the Council had been fixed for April 10th.
2,	M, Mi Dr Rid CA said that the T.H.C. was meeting on February 9t‘ The main question for its discussion was Lord Robert Cecil1 s Draft Treaty. He had had tho impression in Paris that it was M. Viviani1 s intention not to discuss the substance of the Treaty at this meeting., but to let Lord Robert explain it, and then to postpone discussion ox substance till the next meeting«
3
The SEC HE TAR Y- O.JITZ! RA L said tha t he thought that ii Lord Robert wished to have a general discussion on the subject, it would not be difficult' to do so.
3.	Dr van HAI.iBL said the Court would that day announce its decision on the Franc o-British difference regarding nationality decrees in Tunis and Morocco.
4.	Sir Arthur SALTER said that he had received a telegram saying that the prospects for the Austrian Loan
in London were hopeful.
In order to avoid confusion, he thought it would be well to stick always to the proper official name of the Supervisory Committee, which might otherwise get mixed up with the Austrian Commission of Control.
5.	Sir Herbert AlidS said that the books for 1912 would be closed on February 15th. He requested all Directors to submit without fail before that day any accounts which related to the 1922 Budget. After that day they could
not be met from that Budget, as its appropriations would definitely lapse.
6.	He reminded the meeting that it was just a year since it had discussed the question of making a 20,' economy in order to meet the anticipated financial difficulties of 1922. As a result of the measures then taken, we had spent between 28g and 79 A of our Budget,
and thus lived just within our income.
He outlined the position taken by the Governing Body of the 1.1.0«, which had appointed a Sub~Commi11ee to support its point of view before the Supervisory Commission. That point of view was expressed in its Resolution as follows;
(a)	That when a Budget had been voted, the expenditure of the amount voted could not be held to depend solely upon
the actual state of the treasury
(b)	That the I.L.O. was in no way responsible for the existing deficit.
(c)	That the question of non-payment of their contributions by some Llembers of the league was entirely a question for the League.
M» COMBRT said that during the last few weeks, all the important labour organisations had taken a strong and definite position in favour of the League. It was important, therefore, in handling the administrative question under discussion to treat it strictly as an administrative question, to be dealt with, so far as possible, between the chief officials of the two organisations, and to give no possible ground for a presentation of the matter which should lead people to believe that the League was antagonistic to the Labour Office.
The SECRETARY-OLITIRAL said that there was no question whatever of antagonism. The question was a purely practical one. He fully sympathised with the feelings of the Labour Office, which, indeed, were entirely shared by the Secretariat, which itself would undoubtedly have been very glad to be able to carp; out all the work for which money had been voted by the Assembly. Prom a practical point of view, however, this was impossible, and it was merely a question of finding a practical solution. This would probably be found in the addition to the Budget of the Labour Office for 1924 of an item for the repayment of their loan from the working capital. He quite recognised that the I.L.O were in a particularly difficult position from the point of view of making economies, because their Budget consisted, as to about five-sevenths, of salaries* At the same time it
5
should not he forgotten that the Secretariat had made very large economies, even under the heading "Salaries, etc." by refraining from making appointments and commitments which, in themselves, were undoubtedly desirable,
7.	M.KMITOUX said that with reference to the Council
Resolution on the frontier between Hungary and Czecho-Slovakia, he had had conversations with the representatives of both States, and they had agreed, subject to their Governments1 consent, to com3 here on Fbbruary 26th fob a preliminary meetinge
7, a»	As regards the provisional lino of demarcation in the Vilna territory, he had learnt at the Quai d’Orsay that they felt sure that the line fixed was quite fair to the Poles, in spite of the contrary op A ion supported by IT. Askenazy.
8.	Professor RAPPARD urged that the name , end addresses, in Geneva, of persons attending forthcoming Commission meetings should be put up on the board, for the information of the Secretariat. This was understood to be a rule to be carried out as far as possible, but it was not usually observed.
IT. AYSilOL said he was glad to have the occasion of expressing his pleasure in meeting, as a colleague, the members of the Secretariat with whom, during the past years, he had already been so often in collaboration.
41
r\ _.!?-î r] ^	4-i	1
' lu- f: 11 .4.J-,
UC/
Dis1ributeci Jo ILS, ¿h md Directors,
LEAGUE OP LATI OPS.
Directors’ ...imites N° 72.
T Tf-. rn*1. ••
^ij;U I jL
l.
Present : -
)P DI REO TOPS' MELTING HELD OP I7SDU:3MY,_ PEPIAÎ RY 14th, 1923.
Secretary General, ‘venol.
Professor Attolico. Sir Herbert .lues.
A. ivxantoux. Professor Rapnard. Sir Arthur Salter. A. Colban.
Dr. Rajchnan.
Dane Rachel Crowdy. ... Comert. nr. McKinnon flood. m. Haas, u. Madariaga.
A. Halecki.
Mr. Manning1 (Secretary)
m t i
SaORj T'RY GLIfLKAL, refers in? to the nee ting of the Supervisory Con iission, said that, in the absence of ‘ k. Noblemaire, M. Osusfey was acting as President,
The Question of the financial relations between the Secretariat and the Labour Office would he coming up on Saturday. It seemed to him tlut the only course w :s for the Labour Office to include in its next Subnet, as i deficit, the loan from the League as well as the exhausted share of the Working Capital Puvd. He strongly agreed with . Comert as to the mutual dependence of the two organisations, pt would be fatal if an idea got abroad th..t a quarrel had arisen over financial troubles which were in fact con.on to
especially in view of the ■resent leaning of the working
classes in our favour owin'? to the Her '.rations question. The only discussion which should tale '..luce on this sub• would be that between himself and .... Thomas before the Supervisory Co mission.
T ro ■ '	osed	p	pci	t..(	>nt
Sec	t i on	f	ari d	-qired	
6 Cl *	At	re sen		t t!	Î3
p "h q	ad. <	wh	ose		
Budge t »			Thus	10,	,000
in E	urope,		and	ariot' :	
s.	‘The	ca	se n	ow i	In
flic	ial	of	the		
¿1. OO.JSiiT then referred tc
of an Agent in India for the Infor ¡.r.tion Section, and for a discussion of the principle involved»
League had a certain number of agencies abroad, whose expenses were Francs had eu vote covered question was
LwaLL in Calcutta. He had already been of great help to the Information Section, but, while asking for no emolument, he felt that some sort of official connection with the League would give him more authority in am Touching the administration and the Press in India. Trie question now was whether the League could sufficiently control on unpaid representative.
In replv to the Secretary General* SIE HERBERT LIES considered th ,t t e office expenses and costs of postage and stationery of such an agent could be provided out of ’’Unforeseen Expenses”, though, of course, this arrangement could only be temporary«
Ü. COVERT and the SECRET EY GENERAL mentioned that very favourable accounts of ..r. Janes had been obtained both from the Govern ¿ent of India and from the Y.i .O. ., and weal on to emphasise the need for centralised agencies of the kind under consideration, esi ecially in the Dominions..
SIB ;rii?"
L..ES endorsed this view, particu"' rly in its application to Canada.
- 3 -
PROFLu>OH RAIFAED expressed so.::e doubt as to whether the League’s interests v.ould best be furthered by such ..eans» These corresj ondents would he feared come to be regarded by the public as in some sense the representatives of the ¡secret rv 'General* r!ould not the duties, therefore, be better entrusted to the residents in the various countries of t e League of Nations Union ? There
were dangers in a .erely -semi-official relationship«.
u. COLLET objected that the Presidents of the League of Nations Union mi -f.t not be sufficiently amenable to control by the Secreted at.
THL
.CRLTARY OLNLRfL agreed that the work, for
instance, of ...r» Bartlett, in London, could hardly be carried on by the League of Nations Union. He also pointed to the success of the Labour Office in their system of local correspondents. It was only a question of appointing agents of the
Information Section, as such.
while PEOFLS30E RAP"LED still expressed misgivings,
Dr. HlJOPL-N supported ...r, Go ært, but insisted that the non-representative character of the post must be m..de quite obvious.
General agreement was shewn with the surest ion of iEOFLSSOE ATT0LI00 that the new post should be described as that of Honorary Correspondent«
On the question of costs, while M. CO-IET estimated them as low as h 35 per "ear, per Agency, 0OLB’.N considered that the ratuitous sup; ly o" necessary League literature would form an important item, and favoured an enquiry in time _ for next Assembly into the budgetary consequences of starting,
say, 10 such Agencies«
IE ARTHUR 3.TITLE contemplated the ; oss the extension of t’ e principle to other Lections secretariat.
iMlity of of the
- 4 -
miry cn-’AlPV-rn •< tw f'T\i 'PM	-Uni
x ¿xL	1 .w-LtX Uxii' -j--. oj j '.v i.Il.
-.hi ip
not xavourmg
expenditure comparable to th.-.t incurred by the labour Office thought a stc*rt might be made with one or two agencies, and that it might in future be possible to increase somewhat the present vote of 10,000 Francs while no longer limiting the work to European countries *
The -principle of m. CCLERT's • ronosals wa
•r
3.
THE SEOHST'liT GEEEEeL referred to the recent circulation of i.i. Colban’s minute on the Directors1' meetings , and of his own reply thereto, and agreed that any Director with views on this subject, should also put them in the fora of a lainute which could be circulated so as to assist the examination of the iron os al at an early meeting,,
4.	THE SECRET HY GELnRoL said that during his absence
next week* ¿u Avenol would take his place.
p

iwa ..mhTUUX described the latest phase of the uolish-Lithuanian dispute. The Legal Section would find material for study in the telegram received from the Lithuanian Government asking the Council to invite the Court to consider whether, under the Covenant :
(l)	the Council had the right to make its recent recommendation;
(2)	‘ effect could be '-riven to such a recommendation, in face of its non-acceptance by one of the interested part ies.
It did not a} ear to se suggested th.t the Secretary General ought, or was able, to impede the execution of the recommendation. The telegram seemed rather to point to a special meeting of the Council. In any case the Resolution of the Council had been not imperative but merely j ermissive in character. He did not feel serious aucrehension as to the
.	m j.
outcome. Some sort The situation in the
of rotest had, in fact, been
neutral some h..d hitherto
-Fn >
■oen,
been ole rly intolerable, wit' tile ever-present risK of collisions and with the import.„nt "’ars-.iT/-Yilna -Railway paralysed for two veurs.. The Poles must obviously be allowed to re; air the line and to protect themselves while doing so. In his view the chief preoccupation of the Lithuanians was to shew the t the cuestión of the neutral cone was still open, and that they themselves wore again the victi ;s of injustice. The i ''.ediate question concerned the effect tobe /pi ven to their tele •Tran# he • ronosed vrenaring an historical survey, shewing how the zone ca.;e to be established, and the circu..stances in which the Council had taken its successive decisions. The Legal Lection might be asked to contribute opinions, and States represented on the Council would then perhaps obtain the ..¿vice of their own jurists as to the next step..
TI:, fjnCIuj? LY ClhLIl.L said the Lithuanian contention was virtually that there had been no dispute and, therefore, no occasion for a recommendation. If there was a dispute the whole of the Lithuanian thesis collapsed.
He agreed that the only course was to prepare an objective statement, as suggested, and he hoped that the question would not, in fact, go before the Courts which would not he sitting again till June.
PH0TLL10L RJp: ED said the Lithuanians seemed to be ...swing for a ruling as to the general authority, as . rainst the smaller states, of the League as a kind of super-State,
TTE- SLCLLTDm P-T77 ;ID.L, however, thought it would be- important, and ..Iso not difficult, to treat the problem strictly as a particular case, without developing the
cuestión of rinci.le.
irp yTY s ± j ja
arked til?,t it
.atter of
a dispute than of the sequel to a dispute. The Council had not adjudicated between two bis utants, but had uerely ained at bringing to an end the present intolerable situation.
M. CGLBAN said t' at the German Iress, encept for so-/.e teaperate criticisia of the re- ppointment of the Governing Conni seion o" the Saar, had been generally favourable in its co r.ents on the work of the Council,
so f'jr as his Se	etion wa	.s concerned.	
l)..x„J it	OREL CSC	•' BY said that	the Advisory
Co.n..ittee on the	Traffic	in o .en and	Children would be
meeting on -.arch	2 And.		
46
l
ISA SUS 0? NATIONS,
Directors Minutes No.73. ERRATUM.
Geneva ,
February 26th,19P,3o
CORRECTION T0 MINUTES OP DIRECTORS MEETING OP FEBRUARY 2 2nd.
CAPTAIN WAITERS. * I
My dear Walters,
In the Directors7 Minutes No.73, page 4, I note that
I was misunderstood. The passage on the 5th line from the bottom should road, as follows:-
"The medical profession here were, however, prevented, not only by professional etiquette, but by law, from oammunieating to third persons particulars of the illness from which any of their patients is suffering, even with his consent.
They could natural 1 y give a full written statement to the patient himself who could dispose of it as he wished. It would therefore be necessary to contemplate either (a) always getting the official concerned to transmit such a statement to the Secretariat; or (b) etc."
If, according to precedent, you thinh it called for, I suggest that an erratum be circulated.
sincerely,
(Signed) RAPPARD.
Director of the
Mandates Section.
Yours
L3AÖU3 C? MATIOHS
34
Di stributod to Under 3 o cretarios-General and Pirootora.
Directors minutes no.73» Geneva,
Confidential.	February 26th,1923«
HIUUPSS OF DIF.BCÜOF.S 8 HBATIHG ES ID PIT TEUESDAY, FCBEUMRY 22nd. 1923«
Present
M, Av en o 1 ■
Professor Attolioo.
11» Bappard*
II.	Conort.
Hr. McKinnon .7ood»
II.	Colban.
Sir Herbert Amus«
M. Madariaga•
M. Mantoux.
M. Ealocki.
Hr. Hi::on.
Mr. Walters. (Secretary,*)- 1
1.	Mo AVHI1QL said that the principal event of the past week was
the Lithuanian telegram, received on Monday, stating that the Polos contrary to tho Council’s EoBOlution, wore advancing with regular trbops beyond tho neutral zone, and asking for an urgent mooting of tho Council. This telegram had boon immediately communicated to tho President ana to tho Members of tho Council, not with a view to as Icing thoir opinion whether a mooting should be held, but in execution of the Home decision, under w!ich the President is to be consulted unless tho provisions of Article 11 arc clearly fulfilled Meanwhile, wo had asked the two Governments for further informo.tion, and a reply had that day been received from the Polish Government, protesting against the accusations made, and stating the line occupied hy thoir troops.
Tho question was whether these events arc merely a serious frontier incident, or ire a real menace to peace. In the
2
latter c. so, the Council must be summoned at onco, but it present it looked as though tho fighting of tho 15th, 16th and 17th had calm. & down.
U.	said that what seemed to have happened was that
in tho neutral zone, tho lithuarianS had put up a cart:in resist-anco to tho Polish advance in tho neighbourhood of tho railway, and that tho Polos (who, so far as the evidence went, seemed only to bo using police and not troops) had crossed the o‘a line of Suv/alki, south of tho zone. This was certainly wrongy though it was not a natter of first-class i iportsnco . He hoped, however, that as a result of the demarche nude by the Allied Governments and by II. Viviani, who had tel« graphed to both Governments concerned, they would withdraw to tho old line. Such c mark of deference to tho Council would go far to ease the situation.
He would not enter into the question of the Soi'ict note,
\
which had been published in the Press, as ho did not consider it oi/serious i portance,
Koanwhilo, on February 20th, the Polish Government hid asked
the Conf	or on	co of	¿mbassa		dors	to i	‘io: finally t		he	frontier :	in	
question	, under the			t arms	of i	r ti e	lo G7	of th e	Tr	e^ty of V:	or sa	illes.
In their	not	e on	tho	sub j	cct,	tho	■‘■"’olos	etc. tod	th	r t the 1 ithus		nian
Cover mo;	nt h	ad do	cla	rod in hoi		:cmbc	r last that		th	y recognised		the
validity	of	this .	4. 1»	icle.	On	the	oahor	hand,	tho	Treaty o	C hi	
bo twoon	tho	PO 1 ec	an	d tho	Bo Isha-vi		.ks, s	tipul t	os	that this	cue	sti on
c:n only	bo	dealt	wi	th by	the	two	? rti	es cone	ern	od. This	sti	pula-
tion was, ho believed, put in by the Polos to guard against Eussian interference, ana in the circumsfences, he thought it could hcrdly ho invoked against their present request. If the Conference of Ambassadors took up tho request, our troubles in tl is nutter would
be much oas ,d .
' The main question seemed to him really a juridical rather than a military one, and he thought that the pr sent Lithuanh n
3
action was only "by way of emphasising their appeal to the Council to put the question to the Court»
MM Afa'ChIC0 ATP A7MP0L remarked that it would he a groat relief to the -oaguo if the frontier were finally delimited hy tha Conference of Ambassadors»
2»	II» IILDABIAG-A said he was shoi tly going to Spain, and
would be glad if any Section would let him know if there was anything he could do during his visit.
3»	M-. Pih-'Pi-ED said that there would figure on the agenda
of the next Council Mooting the Question of the nationality of inhabitants of nB" turd "C* Mandate anoas9 In this connection the See otary-Goneral had asked than an opinion should be prepared as to whether, under Article 4 of tie Covenant, the Mandatory Powers concerned had a right to sit as Members of the Council. He, personally, thought that while they w<co r no doubt, specially interested, tha provision of the penultimate paragraph of ..rticlo 2£ - "The degree of authority, control or administration ' shall . ............ be explicitly defined in each case by the
Council" - was conclusive in the other sense» The memorandum of the Legal Section concluded that they ought to be told that the matter was on the agenda, but not actually invited to sit.
Me COMMIT drew attention to a possible analogs*» In question such as the financial position of Danzig^ Poland was asked to be present, in order that hex representative might he entirely ru courant, and bo consulted if necessary, but with no right to vote unless her interests were directly affected. He further wished to draw attention to tho fact that the small countries wore very anxious that Article 4 should be given the. most extensive ineeii«-protation possible« Ee would further suggest: (a) that, if the Mandatory Powers can possibly prevent the execution of the Council1 decision, this was, in itself, an indication that they had a right of Member ship for the question; (b) That, in practice, a majority decision on political questions is quite impossible.
4
SIR EHRSART /uE3S urged, that on goners 1 grounds it was very important to got tho Members concerned, viz. Australia, New Zealand and South Africa, to tike the fullest possible part in the work of the league« If there wore any real difficn lty ,it would b much more easy to securo their co-operation if they wore present * They were Tory distant countries9 end such in event as. their being temporarily Members of tho Council of the league would hive a tremendous propaganda value „
Mi lulf-M'.D, v.hilo fully admitting this argument, pointed out that it must be hold of less weight than tho proper carrying out of the Leagued duties under the Covenant, The country specially concerned was South Africa, rather than Australia or Hew Zealand©
H. AVENG! said that the discussion had shewed that the matter •must be considered from the point of view of equity, and also of propaganda, as well as from the merely legal point of view*
Mu RAPPAKD said that tho work of the free Distribution Committee must necessarily be, from tine to time, contrary to the wishes of individual Sections <> If it were otherwise, the Committer would have no raison dIetre, and there was* in fact, no doubt of tho necessity for it, besides the definite recommendation of the supervisory Commission© He asked that all Sections would adopt a helpful and sympathetic attitude towards it.
It had boon suggested that before sick leave was given to members of tho Secretariat, a statement from a doctor, saying why he considered leave was needed, should be pr-: sen tod by tho official concerned«. Tho medical f culty here weret however, prevented5not only by professional etiquette, but by lav/, from giving particulars of the illness from which any of their patients is suffering, save with his consent. It would, therefore, bo necessary to contemplate either (a) always getting tho consent of the official concerned;.or (b) having a consulting doctor to the Secretariat, as
7
PROFESSOE EhhSCKI said that two Sub-Commissions of tho
„ i - r
Committee of Intellectual Co-operation would meet at Brussels on Lfc.rch 19th to 23rd. It was more economical to meet there thru at Sonera* Tho "Enquiry" was going very well. The r«..plies received were brief and precise, and gave interesting information, end contained
no requests for financial help*
The work of tho Committee was crortihg cVcr-ir.orca in South ¿Jaorioa, and also in the United States, end ho to think that, at the forthcoming mooting on Historical at Brussels,tho -noricun Delegation would pro .ore that Committee should bo nominated by the; League Commission, that it might bo truly intotnatioiu 1 and representative
sod interest hod reason Sciences , a permanent in order

SIB EDF.BDI.f ilSS wished:	(1) to remind Directors to send in
economy statements by March 1st; (2) to ask those concern d with Technical Organisations to have their Budgets ap roved by their Committees not later than March 24th. Id.. EIIICL said that his Budget would not bo ready before early hpril, but that his Section
could givo a preliminary Budget tt tho date mentioned.
Id. ITIXCIT said that his Section was beginning to work of tho Customs Formalities Conference. He homed to got the assistance of
members of tho Secretariat in interesting their ccuntri
and was
making a sp pointed out
tho League
which they from Europe because the
ecial effort to interest the United States. M. BLIP/P.D tho danger of loading the-United States to think that was dealing with Customs questions. This was a subject on wore hardly reasonable, e.g. Senator Burton took back last year an anti-league ar.d anti-Europe ext view merely Inter-Parliamentary Conference at Vienna had touched
on tho question-.
SIR HERBERT AIMS pointed out that cans ’.’ore anxious that conditions here for their exporters, and would certain
, on the other hard, the Lnori-should bo as good as possible ly be interested in helping
other countries to put their house in order
11» COLBiHsaid that Mr. Patterson, the new High Cormii' now in Sonera,
The Minorities Section was now fully oiparisod. A new Portuguese) member had he on appointed, . nd ho hoped that no further increase would ho necessary until th financial positi ~Ti had definitely improved.
Eo wished to draw attention to the recent Circular 262. regarding work to ho done by the Secretariat as a result of the r cent Council ¡.looting. Ho could not conceive that it could ho necessary to remind any Section of work which had to he done as a rests t of a Council instruction. In his Sootier., al] the things mentioned in the Circular, and several others, hod already hoc.n done t-fore it was circulated. It was important not to act as though the Directors wore not fully responsible for seeing that tie wohk falling on their Sections as a rosu:t of Council decisions was put in hand,
without the smallest delay.
II. -WSroi pointed out that the Circular was merely an Aide Memoiro, and not an instruction. The real responsibility* after all, fell on the Secretary-General, aid it might bo useful to him to have such a statement,
SIT: HoI-BShf AlCS said that ho found the statement very useful.
SIK EXBfP.P AMCS said that ho thought a future meeting might usefully consider the routine to he followed in the ease of distingu.' shed visitors. J^cso often cane for a partic her purpose* and wont away having soon only the Section concerned with that purpose« Eo thought it most desirable that they should be shewn as many sides of
the work as ncosible
LEAGUE 0? HATIONS
Distributed to Un&er-gecrotaries-Gohoral and Directors. T
Directors Minutes 74.
MINUTES 0? DIRECTORS1 MEETING HELD CN WEDNESDAY.
FEBRUARY 28th. 1925.
Present:-
Secretary-Genoral.
M. Avonol*
Professor Attolico.
Dr. Nitobe.
Sir Horbort Ames.-M, Comert.
M, Colban.
Dr. Van Hamel.
Professor Bnppard.
M. Llantoux.
Mr. Nixon.
Damo Rachel Crowiiy.
M. Romein.
Mr. Walters (Secretary).
1.	THE SECRETARY-GENERAL referred to his Circular,
asking Directors to propose economics in their various Budgets up to 15$, if possiblo. He had sent this circular with great regret, but it v/as necessary either to make such a reduction, or to ask the Assembly for supplementary estimates. Ts do this was most undcsirablo and, further, would be most ¿ineffective, since ho did not think wc should got the money. It was better to say to the Assembly: "Weeoould not carry out all the work outlined, bcoaus the contributions wero not sufficient”, than to say: "life have done all the work, but we had to borrow”: and, further, it was far from certain whothor wo. should be able to borrov/. He thought that two or three years hence the situation would be very différent,but
but that till the i it VciJ absolutely essential to
on t;	le cor.tr	ibu tion		s r	"i * )	Y V|3 i -A- V ^ -*• *	Ho th r -far	o r :•	P -U	11 a
his	• ppoal v	' ' ~ d	St '	ong	1 J,	even	though it should		me k	o it
noce.:	ssrry to	cut	do	WD	/or	k deed:	rable in itse	ife	As	a cc se
in point, he		h- §	a s	feed	Da	re R; o	hel Crowdy to	c on	sid	or
who tr	ier the	Conf	ere	•ice	Oil	Ob see	no Publics;tio	ns m	igh	t not
be postponei		till n		ex t	73	ar, although there		had	boo	y*j o i j u
practical re		s son	fo	■v» 1 • 3. O	n re	e 3ting	its being he	Id i	re	I lately
before, or i		U '£1. Y1 j		the	As	nimbly	. Directors	deal	ing	
- ii th	technic	al orga		n is	a ti	ons we	re specially	3011C	orn	0 j. i
sine •:	? they would		ha	VO	to	a sk th	iir Committee	s to	sa	'iotiorj
any postponement, and -youId h. to to explain tin position to those Committees.
Ho asked that all pap-ora connoctod with questions of internal uclr.ini3tration might be sent to Professor Attolioo direct, and not to him.
Referring to the li icussion in the- last Directors1 Mooting on the circular on action involved by the decisions of the 1? at Council, he said that this vac not prepared with any idea that Directors were not taking the necessary action, but for information for all the Sections. As stated in the Circular, it did not claim, to be exhaustive, end it did not, of course, absolve the different Sections from the responsibility of seeing that the necessary action /as t-ken in hand.
The next Council Meeting wo 3 on April 10th. He exueetod that this date would bo adhered to. The agenda might not, perhaps, be very important, but it would certainly bo long.
PRQTHSSPR ATTOLICO said that it would bo a good thing to try and got the Rancorteurs* Reports circulated rather earlier then had been tf:e case in the past.
The Council Members, and particularly the new Members, did
3
ft.
7.
3.
did not like tie present arrangement'» Of course it was often impossible to get the Repotts leng beforehand, but let us try for what is pgssible.
M. C CLEAR said that there Were coses when it was better not to draft the Report before the Council met, if there were a chance cf settling the question before it was dealt with by the Council as a Whole,
THE SECRBT\RY-GSri5RA.L said that tho Council had again expressed a desire to receive Rapporteurs?
Reports 48 hpurs before they were considered. He thought it was an important principle that there should be o. Report from the Secretary-General en every question and was, therefore, opposed to making one Report instead <*f two.
It hud been suggested that a new edition of the Rules of Procedure of the Council should be produced.
He was against this proposal. Tho present arrangement worked pretty well, '■nd it was wiser not to reopen a lot of questions which night lead to long discussion.
DR. V1!I H4M5L agreed. MR C01BAE said he did not wish to press the suggestion.
THS SECRET 1 RY-GffNERAL said he wished to express agreement with Professor Attolico's Circular on the importance of consulting the Ictin American Bureau before letters were sent to South and Central America.
He was much impressed by the work of this Bureau, and thought it likely to prove of great assistance to the work of the Secretariat, and it, therefore, deserved to receive all possible holp from the rest of the
Secretariat.
/
j M, MARTOUX said that the Lithuanian reply to M,
VivAani’s telemram had now been received. The Poles
I
were still on tho wrong side of the line, but there was
no^sign of fighting, nor did they renew the request fox
/
n Council Mooting. This question, therefore, might be r	considered
4
considered to hare lost its urgency for the moment. But it was important that tho Council decision should be strictly rospoctcd, and that tho Polish forces which had crossed the old line should ho withdrawn at onco. Ho and tho Legal Section wero working on a statonont of the whole matter, from tho legal point of view. as regards the replication of Article 87 of the Treaty of Versailles, the I^t-ucnians had only accepted this in November last subject to tho validity of tho diroct engagements between Poland and Lithuania. This, of courso, mount tho Pact of Suwalki. Ho did not know whether tho Conference of Ambassadors would act on the Polish request, tut much hoped so*
9.	He gave a brief aacount of the procedure adopted for
the negotiations now taking place between the Czccho-Slovak and Hungarian exports with regard to the frontier question boforo the Council. T^o mooting was intended to prepare the work for M. da Gama.
ID.	PROPBSSOB RAPPARD said he was quite prepared to
aocopt tho Secretary-General's invitation to represent the Secretariat at the discussions of the Library Committee, although ho was doubtful whothcr he was truly competent to do so.
TUB S3CHSTABY-GBUEHAX said he felt no doubt on the matter.
In reply to SIR KBRB5RT if.IBS. the Secretary-Gene ral said ho thought that members of the Secretariat would not bo asked to give eTidonoo to the Committee.
11*	DAUB RACHEL CP.CA/DY said she had just received tho
text of tho Opium Resolution presented to Congress by Mr* Porter.	The preamble	referred to the	fact that an
altercation in	tho original	recommendations	of the Opium
Committee had	boon made by	the Assembly on	the proposal	of
India, viz. to substitute "legitimate uses” where the
5 -
C con it to o had spoken of restriction to "nedi cirwl or d scientific uses”, and the Bosolution urgod the administration to take direct action for limiting Production»
Question of the Conti nun t.-i on of bho Dii ectoxs 1 Ike tings.
!!» CODBiJ' said his viov/s wore fully expressed in the nonornndun v/hich had been circulated, but he v/culd attempt to rosuno then,
The Directors* 'lootings were first established to create a liaison betwo- n the Secretary-General and his colleagues, end to enable the latter to work closely and intimately with the former. For these purposes, they had proved most valuable, but these purposes had now been served. Committees exist in the Secretariat for many special purposes, and the Secretary-General and his colleagues know one another veil.
A weekly tall: on current questions was, he thought no great use, although he 'mould not wish to discontinue it altogether.. Already, however, the Secretary-General had used the meeting not merely for liason purposes and/or discussion, but for actual consultation on questions of special importance. This was, he thought, a valuable development of the original plan, and should form a foundation for us to build on now. The Secretary-General is in no way bound to submit ouesbions for such, consultation, hut he had found it useful in the past, and this should, therefore, in his view, be its main purpose in the future. It would be useful to the Secretary-General, and it would also be of value to Directors, by enabling them to bring up such questions as they thought advisable. For this purpose it should have a formal agenda, which should be under the Secretaiy~General*s control.
- 6 -
The result v/ould undoubtedly be to restrict membership to the Secfetary~Genoral, Under -Secret; ries-General, and Directors o He was entirely in accord with the Secretar;,-Gone ral1 s proposal to tost his suggestion by holding the existing meeting and tho limited meeting on alternate Wednesdays, in order to see how the idea worked in practice . But ho would express straight away his own viov; of what would happen, namely, that the limited meetings (of which no minutes should be circulated) v/ould turn out to bo the only onos of real value, while tho others gradually evaporated; hut, of course, it was possible that the latter might be revivified through a spirit of emulation.
He would make no comment on II. Hap ard’s note,
The suggestion of mootings with officials of tho I«1.0«. was of great interest, but should, ho thought, be kept sop/rato from the erasent question.
The limited mooting would be comp tent to discuss any question which the Secretary-General liked to put to it, or to plv.ee on its agenda, but it was, of course, open to any Director to propose at tho meeting that a question should be dealt with by tho existing mooting, or vice versa.
II. ,-YHITQL said that he looked ¿ t the question from tho point of view of one who had only very recently exchanged the functions of a national official for those of an in t orna ti o na 1 one, and ho had been naturally brought to reflect very seriously on tho consequences involved in that change. The difference ho twoon an organisation whose members wore the servants of their own Government, and this one, whose members are the servants of 51 different Governments, was profound. In particular, the special position of tho Secretariat involved that it had no administrative or
executive poorer of its own. nor had its members the duty, or the right, of initiating policy. On the ether hand, they were clrav/n from many different countries, rnd edoh being more or less aware of his Governmentrs point of view, they could harmonise the various elements together in preparing the work; which led up to decisions of the Council and other organs of the League«
All poiver of initiative thus rested in the Members of the League, Once a decision had been taken the Secretariat had to function executively and administratively, and these functions were matters of interest in a varying degree to all its different Sections, But was it possible for the Secretariat to work out, so to speak, of itself what might be called a policy to be followed by the League? Such a result
9
he concluded, could be indirectly, but not directly, produced, ^nd in consequence a meeting which should have a formal agenda, and a more or less official form, for the discussion of a League policy, would be rather dangerous. It was not desirable that we should form n sort of debating society, but if we try and establish a "réunion préparatoire du Conseil", we are bound to rim one danger or the other.
PROFESSOR ATT01ICO asked what kind of questions would figure on the agenda of tno limited meeting.
M„ CO LB ITT said that it would certainly not be ôpen to a Section to put on the agenda a question which is already being dealt with by another Section, though the Secretary-General could do so. The following were examples of questions which might be put ont-
(a)	The desirability cf holding more frequent
Council Meetings.
(b)	Gestion of establishing a Minorities
Commission of the Council.
_o-
(c)	^u'-stion of policy involv 1 in tne existing
situation rogv.rd.ing ..linorities in Litnuania, Latvia and Ssthonia.
PROfTfGGOR A?TOPI00 said ho thought the number of such questions wt’i small.
I.R, NIXON doubted whether the propose x mooting would ho very differout in character from the existing ono. It was possible thi t the present meeting devoted rather too much time to small internal questions, hut ho thought it would he undesirable to try end distinguish strictly between questions of policy and of edministr- tion. If you took a question of pure policy, e.g. the Reparations question, you would either be merely debating, or else probably doing harm»
SIR ERRANT xlHRS said that he was very keen to continue ono feature at least of the present weekly nesting, namely the weekly summary of information given by the Secretary-General and by various Directors whose Sections had been doing some specially interesting work. Save the Secretary-General uni Id. Comert, we were all more or less specialists, and it was important that we should know what others are doing. This 3ide of the weekly meeting should, therefore, in his opinion, be maintained and developed, and he would be against the discontinuation of the meeting or its serious curtailment.
DR, VAN HAMEL said the meetings as hold up to now had been useful for the discussion of common interest3, and for the giving of information by the Secretary-General end by ono Section to another, and from this point of view they should not be more than a week apart. If there were too much discussion on points of detail, this wa3 a matter for the discretion of those present.
-9-
O'fl the other hand, they had not been a centre of discussion of first-class problems, or a centre for the creation of common opinion amongst the leading members of the Seeretaiiat* This ./as partly due to the presence of a number of junior members, and partly because the meetings -fere not, perhaps, sufficiently intimate and serious. It v/as for the Secretary-General to say whether thi3 state of things should be changed or not, The point rade by M. Avenol was most important, and he would answer it by saying that, While there could be no active policy of the Secretariat, the Secretary-General nevertheless had a moral responsibility for the development of the league -this with the help of Governments, and not against their will, Tor this purpose close collaboration between a small nucleus of the Secretariat was most desirable, but it should not take the form of a formal meeting* It would also be necessary to avoid incurring the criticism on the part of Governments by setting up a kind of political Board, with a desire to affect the policy of the /orId. Discussions mu3t be unofficial, and the conclusions reached should not bo binding on anyone* In his view the most practical realisation of this idea would take the form of a 3ir.ple weekly lunoheon, like those held by the heads of a great many business concerns.,
PBOTBGGQR ATT07IC0 was anxious to keep cle; r the two main innovations w.oich rauld r'3ult from the adoption of Colban's plan, viz. the formal agenda and the presence, or absence, of two or three heads of Section. The specific questions mentioned by M.Oolban could, in his view, quite well be included on the agenda of the Directors' Meeting as at present constituted. If any important difference were to be
1C
introduced, it must "be in the notoire of the questions discussed.. Was there, in feet, to he set up a new "Committee on Policy"? Was such a thing consistent with the present constitution of the Secretariat?
He, personally, thought not* He feared that neither form of meeting contemplated in the Secretary-General’s minute would serve any useful new purpose*
In fact, the real, and the most important, object of the Directors’ Meetings was that described by Sir Herbert lmes. Htoen he sometimes heard only by accident of quite important decisions. If this view were accepted, he added, the meeting must rely not on the Secretary-General, but cn the individual Directors themselves. He went cn to enumerate a pumber of topics on which statements might have been made that day. Sach member should, in fact, be prepared to make some contribution.
M. RCMEII7 thought it would be a pity to discontinue the present system, in which he saw great value.
M, COMIüF.T was of the same view, and pointed cut ho™ important it was thrt the Information Section should continue to have these oppertunities of attending the discussion of important questions. Recalling tV'C.t members of the Secretariat were strictly only the servants of the Council, ' nd, as such, theoretically without personal views, he thought it most undesirable for it to become known that Secretariat meetings were in the habit of discussing the larger problems of the day, with the possibility of conjectures in the Press as to the nature of these discussions.
PROF3SSOP HAPPAED. while admitting the officially impersonal character of the Secretariat, set against this the position in actual fact, namely,
-li-
the veijr real influence of members of the Secretariat upon opinion in League matters, .ncL in particular the recognised system whereby the .Council’s decisions woro prepare! by its servants - its intelligent and r spontible servants - in the Secretariat« That the 'Directors••should*jail be thoroughly informe * on current questions, was essential to their efficiency« The admitted inadequacy for this purpose of the Directors’ Lies ting 3 was, in his opinion, duo partly
o the attitude	of the merb		rs, and p-. r tip	to the	
ttitude of the	Oh; ir.		ever a /orhing to	O* i' d-Vi t~- -v» UdX v_» X	for
common object,	and v,	riv. ter	er might be its	risks,	Ibhe
basis of this work must bo mutual confidence.
Without contesting the Secret* ry-Don^ral'3 solo r 'snonsioility under the Covenant, he urged that more confidence should be shewn in the Directors’ Meetings, if possible at their present size, but, if necessary, /it the restriction in numbers suegestei by M. Colban, He also noted the dietiv_ntege of the absence of representatives of almost all of Uorth and South America. If it should, be agreed that all Sections ought to arrive at a common opinion, he /a3 inclined to agree with Dr. Vai Hamel’s view as to the best means..
DAI,05 R.-.CHZ5D CDO'TDY considered it i: port ant to avoid giving the impression that discussions were being held too secret for the admission of Chiefs of Sections, and the responsible deputies of the Directors. fere the meetings to be divided into two classes, 3he feared little interest
would be
-12-
fct-n in th:• loss irp orient kind. At the same time, there misrht well he a rule against the presence of more than one member from each Section«
DTI, HI?015 said that, vhile he had not considered the question very carefully, he douote i whether many questions would, in practice, require secret discussion.
He entirely sympathise-*. with Sir Herbert Ame3 in finding the Directors’ Meeting of great educational value. Incidentally, he felt that it would be of advantage if all grades of the Secretariat 3taff could be better informei on the various aspects of the League’s work. The Monthly Summary appeared too late to be effective for thi3 purpose,
THE 3ECH5TAHY-GrE'TERAL while agreeing that, technically, the Secretariat must not be held to have any policy of its own, recognised that the individual Directors did, in faot, oxerci3.e a considerable influence on opinion in League matters within their respective countries. It was essential that they should all speak with the same voice, and, therefore, desirable that they should agree in advance on the line to be taken.
A3 regards the proper source of authority in taking decisions, two opposite theories might be stated*.
The Secretary-General might bo regarded as a dictator, or, on the other hand, every decision might be the result of discussion at a meeting of Directors forming in fact a Cabinet, Neither of these- theories seemed to him applicable. The present system - something between the two- did not 3eem to him to work badly. He recalled the important questions, with regard to which the common view of the Secretariat had boon settled by discussion at a special Directors' Meeting - views which had proved to be rirht. Special meetings could always be
13
called when opportune, '.no no doubt the time would come when the Rep nr tions question might usefully bn considered in this way. .-it present if a question arose which specially affected a p^rticul^r country, or particular members of the Secretariat, it was his habit to consult the opinions of those of his colleagues who —ere interested. But, of course, oven a full Directors' mooting lacked representstives of Spain and South Amcric .
Ke felt bound to protest against the suggestions that he was not easily accessible, and that he had ever discouraged the giving of information at Directors' Meetings. He, however, agreed with Sir Herbert Ames as to the desirability of thinking out beforehand a list of suitable subjects.
With Sir Borhert Ames and Professor Atto-lico, he felt that the Directors' Meetings Should servo two objects, namely:
(l) the settlement of administrative questions; and (2) the giving of information and, if opportune, the holding of discussions upon bigger questions. Ho could not, in fact, recall any important past question of importance which had not been discussed in this way, and subject to Professor Attclico's very welcome suggestion that contributions should be- mere- readily made, ho vr-s in favour of continuing the present system.
After some discussion, it was agreed that to continue the oresent system ''nd to establish the list suggested by Sir K„ Ames If any member of the meeting would send his suggestions for the list to the Secretary-General's Department on a Monday, the Sections concerned could be notified in time to prepare the desired information for that week's Director's meeting.
LEAGUE O.'1 NATTONS-.
31

Confidential,
Directors Minutes No,75.
C-.. ne va,
Ma rah 10 th ,1922.
MINUTES
THE DIKECTOES ICETING HELD
ON WEDNESDAY, MARCH 7th.1923.
PBESEIIT : -
The S E CL: E TAD Y - GENE! AL.
Ho AYENOL,
DR. NITOBE,
Sir Herbert AMES.
Sir Arthur SALTER.
Dr. RAJCHMAN.
Professor RAP-AF.D.
Drc ran HAMEL.
Mu MANTOUX M„ CCMEET.
Col. HIAM.
HR. GILCHRIST.
Capt. Walters. Secretary.
The SECKSTALY-GENEl.AI. said that none of the Directors had forwarded on the previous Monday any request to the effect that a »articular subject should be dealt with at the meeting.
There were no new events of great interest since the previous meeting.
1.	As regards the Polish Lithuanian question it now seemed
clear that there would be no necessity to hove a special meeting of the Council, Both sides had telegraphed to the President that they did not intend to transgress the line laid down by the Council. Each continued to accuse the other, but except for a certain snail triangle of territory which it did seem that the Poles were wrongly occupying, there did net seem to be any serious trouble.
The Council would have to deal with the Lithuanian application to have a case suat-ed. before the Court. He personally
E
thought it was not desirable to accede tp this reouést and ho red that by that tine the Conference of Ambassadors would have accepted the tr.sk ox delimiting the frontier which would, of course, make any such cuestión somewhat academic, In any case the Council's rules had always, where frontier questions v/ere concerned, been quite explicitly of a provisional nature.
The question of the ini ted States joining the Court seemed to be developing well. It had, of course, been anticipated that the Senate would agree with the ' recommendation of its foreign Relations Committee that the question should not bo dealt with in the present session. But meanwhile President Harding had published a very strong letter on the subject which he thought was bound to have considerable effect.
The Meeting then went through in detail the draft agenda of the next Council meeting which it was intended to forward for M. Viviani's approval that day. A number of minor alterations were made with regard to individual questions:—
(a)	'Jith regard to the Mandates question, LI<* RAPPAED said that he had been informed that Hr. Branting's report was being drafted in. the first place by the Swedish Member of the Mandates Commission.
The SECEETAliY-GEFERAL said he thought this was a perfectly satisfactory plan, it, however, gave additional weight to the argument ’he had put forward last time with regard to the memoranda by the Secretary-General. .This was, of course, all the more necessary the more Council Members took to composing their reports without reference to the Secretariat.
(b)	It v/as agreed that the reports on the reconstruction of Austria should bd presented by, or on behalf of LI: . ^iumermann and not by the British representative. Austria v/ould , ox course be invited even though it was not certain at present whether there would be any question of sufficient i iportan ce to necessitate a
2
meeting ox the Axis trian Sub-Committee ,
(a)	With regard to the Belgian request to the Council to appoint substitute members on the Belgian, German, etc, Arbittral Tribunal, Dr. van HAMEL mentioned that the Germans had issued a big protest against the action of Prance and incidentally of the Council. Heanv/hile 5 of the judges appointed had a] ready met in Baris and Signor Botella had made a speech to them. Ee himself had no doubt of the legality of the action taken„
The SECi-EJA1.Y.-GBNEEAL said he did not feel quite so certain on this subject.
(d)	With regard to the question of provisional circulation of
reports by Advisory Committees, M* RA PEARL pointed out that the Mandates Commission was in a rather special position in this matter. Its meeting was to be held on or about July 20th and would last 3 weeks»
The SECEETARY-GEEERAL pointed out that this was a very inconvenient date since it gave the Council and Assembly no time to consider the report before the latter met, and what was perhaps more important t it gave the Mandatory Powers too little tine to communicate with their own Governments or with the administrations concerned in order to prepare answers to any criticisms made by the Committee.
l.u EAPPARL said that he strongly felt these disadvantages»
The date had been fined mainly for the convenience of Mr» Ormsby Gore, and as he had now been replaced by Sir Preder^ick Lugard, who was not a member of Parliament, it might be possible to get it
altered.
The SECRETARY-GE1TERA1 said that as the Assembly agenda had to be despatched by the' beginning of May it would be well to begin thinking what subjects ought to be placed on it«
- 4
Ho expressed his gratitude to the different Directors who, in-èpite of grout difficulties hud shown the utmost good-will in,proposing economies in their budgets* Each of thorn had no doubt felt that his budget hud been drum up with a close regard for economy and had been subjected to the criticisms of tho commission of Control and of the Assembly, but they had nevertheless succeeded in holding out the possibility of c rtain economies vhich amounted altogether to a large sum} though not 15/0 of tho totale He proposed that the subject should be reconsidered in two or three months time when tho prospects of the year would be more clearly loiora <,
He hoped that sections would not build on tho news of the Argentine’s intention to pay its contribution which was not finally confirmed „
He made a special appeal to one Section vhich had declared it impossible to hold out any possibility of economy* If this attitude were maintained it might quite unfairly lead the Supervisory Commission to deduce that other Sections had over budgeted *
Sir Arthur SA I!1 UR said that ho had taken great risks in making tho economy proposals which he had ms.de for his Section and if there wore any possibility of relief, he hoped this might bo borne in mind »
Dr* EAJCEI.LAIT asked whether there was any risk that the Supervisory Commission might tt kc an unfair account of the economies proposed in criticising the Budgets submitted by Sections for the year 1924» The SECHEfAHY-GSI.HEAL said that tho attitude of tho Commission had boon a very fair one and he did not tiling there was the least danger
or
thi S »

LEAGUE IF FA TICKS.
Distributed to	Geneva, March 17th 1923.
Undor-Seer otaries-General and Directors.
MINUTES OF DIREC TORS HEGT ING (Ko. 76).
hold on ’"Wednesday, March 14th at 3.3Ö p»m.
Present:	The Secretary-General
M. Avenol.
Dr. Nitohc.
Dr. van Hamol.
Sir Arthur Salter M. Rappard Sir Herbert Ames Dr. ha j c hman.
M, Comert Mr. Gilchrist M. Haas.
M. Madariaga.
M. Vare M. Rodrigttec Mr . Swe c-1 s e r.
Mr. Manning, Secretary.
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL said that there had been no
change in the general situation. M. Hymans had written
privately requesting on personal grounds that the Council
Meeting should be postponed for one week. He had replied
except
pointing out the Council had decided that/in very exceptional circumstances, the date already agreed must be maintained but that if M. Hymans put forward a personal request he would of course be ready to convey it to the President of the Council and his colleagues.
(2) In connection with the fixing of dates for meetings of League Commissions, Directors were asked to bear in mind a note submitted by Mr. Huston showing the advantage, from an administrative and financial point of view, of starting these early in the week so as to avoid the extra expense either of employing staff on Sunday or of paying subsistence allowances over the week end.
SIR HERBERT AMES remarked that it would he convenient
if meetings could finish at latest on a Friday when the Bank was still open.
M. RAPPARD considered that the Bank might well keep open for longer hours, at least on those days when the payment of salaries led to congestion.
SIP. HERBERT AMES said that the Bank already did an immense amount of work for the Secretariat for which two additional employees would otherwise be necessary.
DR. van HAMEL doubted whether the benefits of the existing arrangement were all on the side of the Secretariat.
There ensued a discussion on the differences said to he found in the rates at which money might be exchanged as between the various hanks in Geneva, and even as between the Secretariat branch and the central office of Lloyds Bank. Regarding this last point, it was agreed that Sir Herbert Ames should t^ke the matter up with the Manager of the Bank in order to make quite sure that no such variation did, in fact, obtain.
(?) THE SECRETARY-GEN ERAL referring to Sir Herbert Ames’ circular asking Sections to submit their estimates for 1924, said the same principles should be applied in drawing up these estimates as in previous years.
On a suggestion from Sir Arthur Salter, it was agreed that where an item in the 1924 budget represented postponement, on grounds uf economy, of work from this year, an explanatory footnote should be added to this effect.
SIR HERBERT AMES said he hoped that every Director had duly received the statement recently circulated giving the expenditure of his Department for 1922.
Replying to Dr, Rajchman, he said that with a view to greater uniformity of presentation this year, a draft statement of requirements would be circulated as a model. He hoped that
s
all Sections would be able to send in at least their advance budgets b,\ ¡'.larch £4th.
DR. KAJCHLAH said that the Health Committee * having constituted a Sub-Committee to discuss, if possible by correspondence, the budget cf the Health Section, he feared that this could not be settled by the date mentioned.
It was, however, explained that Directors were merely being asked for a preliminary expression of their personal expectations in the matter.
On a question put by Professor Happard, the SECEUTARY-G 'HAL explained that the technical organisations were competent to consider these budgetary matters. The immediate purpose of these preliminary figures was to give Sir Herbert Ames, Professor Attolico and himself some idea of what the total requirements would be.
(4)	PROFESSOR RAPPAED thought it would be much appreciated if any other of the Directors should find it possible to attend next Monday, the general meeting of the local League of Nations Union at which M. Mantoux would bo giving an address on the subject of Austria.
(5)	He went on to refer to the present critical attitude of Swiss opinion upon the Saar question, and, in particular,
he would like to know the proner answer to give to enquirers regarding the case of Dr. Hector.
MR, GILCHRIST mentioned that the confirmation of Dr.
Hector's substitute would be a matter for the Council, which, incidentally, had the power to revoke the mandates of the Governing Commission at any moment.
THU SECRETARY-GENERAL concluded that while Dr. Hector had, indeed, withdrawn his charge, no complete answer to Professor Rappard’s question could be given until after the Council Meeting.
(a) M, RODRIGUEZ madt a statement regarding the forthcoming Santiago Conference. wvory American State
r
-4-
which had a representativa at ’Tashingtcn was, he said, entitled to take part in the Conference. Mexico was debarred as she had no such representative* Peru and Bolivia would not attend owing to their differences with Chile. From a thorough study of all available material ha did not think tho results of the Conference could be in any way bad from the point of. view of the League. He quoted a newspaper article in which Washington was declared .to he against setting up a rival to the League of Nations, To the smaller States, on the other hand, the League stood as a valuable off-set to the not altogether popular predominance if tho United States. Good-will to the Leagpo had al30 characterised president Brum’s message to Congress, containing appreciative reference to Uruquay1s position on the Council, and treating the proposed American union rather as a collaborator than as a rival ,to the existing League, All Latin America had, moreover, been gratified by the honour done to Mr. Edwards, and even the Argentino had of late taken a now interest, especially in the Hague Court, on which they would no douht he glad of representation. As himself a Latin American, he emphasised tho value of such little attentions, describing, in particular, the good impression his own appointment had made,
SIR HUBBUBT ALLS described the wido publicity given in tho Canadian Press to a campaign recently conducted in Toronto by tho Pan-American Union, and mentioned Mr. John Barrett as a strong
advocate of CanadaTs participation in the Pan-Amorican Conference
in
which Mr. Barrett’s views should ssistthe League in American affairs.
M. P.GLBIGUSZ remarked that Canada had, indeed, been invited to attend the Santiago Conference.
THU 3BCBUTABY-GUUURAL said that all recent communications inclinei him to believe that the Conference would be actually helpful to the League, especially in tending towards the adoption by the participating States of 30mo united policy at the
-5~
Assembly, Mm. Barrett's attitude was natural enough in one hostile to the league. He conclude! with a tribute to the promising work already done by the Latin American Bureau, which he had followed very closely and with which he was very muoh impressed.
M. MADARIAGA drew attention to the comprehensive programme of concrete, proposals with which the Santiago Conference would bo dealing. The Pan American Union was, in his view, an institution very closely to be watohoc, embodying us it did tho political aspeot of the influence of the United States. Washington's unfavourable attitude towards President Brum's proposals for strengthening the organisation of thi3 Union might conceivably be inspired by the feeling that the very vagueness of the existing situation itsolf secured a disproportionate share of influence to the United States.
He further emphasised the possibility of definite conventions being adopted at the Conference, which might in some points actually conflict with the efforts of the league.
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL, however, pointed out that this view, if entirely correct, would make it difficult to explain the unsympathetic attitude recently taken by Washington towards the proposed defection of a oertain Latin American State. Ho also saw possibilities of valuable results in the direction of tho regional application of tho necessarily general principles formulated by the League on transit and similar questions.
PROFESSOR RAPPARD gave two reasons for his conviction that tho pan American Union could only be of benefit to the League. First its tendency was against nationalism, our moat serious obstacle, Seoondly, nothing seemed to him. bettor calculated to foster south American loanings towards Europe than close contact with the United States.
Mi AYEHOL and MHAAS agreed that the work of tho technical organisations stood to gain by the development in tho south American oountries of any administrative machinery whose cooperation they might hope to enlist»
MR. S’TSSTSEH observed that Hr. Rowe had insisted in their la3t oonversaticns on th^ need for co-operation between the Pan American Union and the League.
(7)	MR. S’TEETSER then wont on to refer to Lord Robert Ceoil’s coming Journey which would begin on the 25th of March an would include three weeks in the United States and one in Canada A long visit was being intentionally avoided; in fact,
Lord Robert would try to limit himself; to about six speeches»
Re was thus likely to obtain a more serious hearing than had M. Clemenceau, whose speeches had perhaps been rather too numerous. He was going hs the guest of the Foreign Policy Association of New York. No plans had as yet been made for
definite relations with the Non-Purtizan Association though that
body had welcomed the visit. In fact, the programme was still in process of being drawn up on the other side. Ho expressed some doubt a3 to the value of so extended an itinerary as has been scheduled. In any event, the most fruitful work would probably bo done in small private meetings.
THE SECRHT.iRY-GHNER:'L said ho had been deligte 1 to notice an Assembly resolution figuring a3 an annex to Mr„Secretary
Hughes’ message to Congress.
(8)	As regards the representation of Great Britain on the Council, the Government had approved of the appointment of Mr* Edward 'food, Minister of Education. It was, however, understood that Lord Balfour would continue as the chief British representative and would attend in person if special circumstances made it advisable. The arrangement would bo not unlike that of earlier days, with Mr-. Wood replacing Mr. Fisher.
7-
(9)	MR. S’.TESTSER foresaw the possibility of a vary difficult situation arising out of America's new interest in the Court- Vhilo Mr* Hughes was inclined to emphasise
the Court's practical independence of the League, the Radicals were airing to embarrass the administration by refuting this , presentation. From his correspondence with persons at the Hague ho had no doubt that Court opinion would favour Mr. Hughes1 position. Croat care would, therefore, be desirable in the preparation of any statements on the subject.
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL, however, felt that considering the terms in which Mr. Hughes' letter tc the President made clear the dependence of the Court for the election of judges upon the League, there was little cause for anxiety. This statement would suffice for all our nee Is. It might perhaps be well if this letter were circulated;, Aa fresh testimony td the true relationship it had now become the duty of the Council to put on the Assembly agenda the- question of filling the place of the late Mr. Ruy Barboaa.
(10)	DR. RAJCHMAN made a statement with regard to the general epidemic situation, particularly as regards Russia,
the conclusion of sanitary conventions, the work of the Epidemic Commission in Russia and Greece, and on the recent exchange in London of sanitary personnel.
31
LEAGUE CF LATINES.
Distributed to
Tlnder-'S'ecretaries General
and Directors,
MINUTES OF DIRECT
Dir ect ;r s Meet ing Geneva, March ¡L^idi
77
1 Q £ rÁ
X J w O'
held on Wednesday, La
ch
1923 <
Present:-	Secretary-Goneral
Dr. Hitche.
Dr, Rajchman,
Dr, Van Hamel, Professor Rappard. M, Man to “ox,
Mr, Bieler.
M, Haas,
Lame Rachel Crowdy. M, i&danaga,
M. Heyman,
M, Bonnet,
M r.M ixen.,
Mr. Gilchrist.
Mr, Walters (Secretary) 1
1.	TEE SECRETARY GENERAL said that it seemed
practically certain that the Council would be on April 15th, as M, Hymans had requested, but no reply had, at that time, been received from the representatives of France or Uruguay„ He did not think that the postponement affected the plans of the Secretariat unfavourably. It would he necessary to complete our work en the Budget as far as possible before the Council Meeting, as otherwise there would be little time before the Supervisory Commission met, and he asked Directors to do all they could to assist the Financial Director in this direction.
•	MR, BIELER said that the estimates for next
year so far received seemed mostly to be below the 1923 estimates. The depreciation of the Swiss franc was a small point to our advantage for this year.
-2-
THE SECRETARY GllfRA_L said that the 1923 estimates were really as low as they could he made for the work in sight, and it was only by certain "wind -‘'alls" (non-appointment of one or two Cotnllissions etc,) that it had been possible to anticipate any serious economies.
DR. VAN HA11SL said that he had had an enquiry from a Japanese Secretary as to whether the Japanese Government was strictly bound by the Assembly Agreement on the 1923 bareme.
THE SECRETARY GEEERAL said he felt no doubt on this point, - the Guban Delegation having been the only one to make any reserve.
4.	In reply to a question from the Secretary-General,
DR. VAII-HAMEL said that the Treaties of Santa Margharita and Rapallo had not been sent for registration.
5.	MR MIX Oil said the Economic Committee was meeting on Monday next. He was now much more optimistic than he had previously been with regard to the possibilities of the Customs Formalities Conference. Keen interest was being-shewn nqt only by business men, but by the officials qf many different Governments. A preparatory meeting of experts
was taking place at the end of the week.
6.	DA; 13 RACHEL CRO.TOY said that the Committee on the Traffic in Women and Children was meeting to-morrow. Most of the delegates wished to meet in public, and she would be
glad to know whether the Council’s decision with regard to the Opium Committee could be regarded as a precedent for the other Committee
MELNE¥MAIJ drew attention to the possible risk of holding in public discussions at which somewhat keen differences of opinion might be in evidence.
THE SECRETARY GENERAL said he presumed that there wToulrl in any case be a private meeting first to discuss the ,oint.
If there were unanimity in favour of public meeting, he did
not think the Connell would object to the present meeting being held in public« If there were oven a minority against, he thought the Council would probably not favour such publicity without the point being previously referred to it,
D?, VAST HAM3L pointed out the possibility of inducing tho minority (if there were one) to accept the wishes of the majority« This would create a different situation from, that which would exist if the minority stood out firmly tor its view,
M, NET TAT thought that public opinion might be hostile to the idea of such questions being discussed before a miscellaneous public «
THE SECRETARY GENERAL said that this might be mot by allowing admission by ticket, limited to representatives of the Members and of interested organisations,
I?.. BA JO EM AN said that the possible precedent involved was of groat importance. He suggested that even if the vote wont against publicity, and the Press were, therefore, excluded, u few representatives of interested organisations might nevertheless be specially allowed to be present.
This, DAMS PACKS! CHOTOY said, would meet the ease of Miss Abbott, who had specially come ever from, the United States for the meeting:
Vo	DAME RACHEL CRO'TDY said she wished to know what were tho
powers of the Drafting Committee in dealing with reports sent in by persons not members of the Secretariat for the use of Committees, etc, Had the Drafting Committee any power to cut down or alter such reports?
THE SECRETARY GENEEAI said that a member of the Section concerned ought always to be present when such reports wore being dealt with by the Drafting Committee, If the member of the Section were prepared to take the responsibility vis-a-vis the author of any alteration proposed, well and good. Otherwise« it was certain that t-he Drafting Committee had no power to cut down or alter any such report on its own authority.	\
4
II„ MADARIAGA asked whether there were any rules governing the activities of the Drafting Committee.
TH4 SDCi-DTaRY GSTDRIL answered that rules had been laid down and circulated to Sections.
If. LLirTOUX said he had, since the last meeting, "been to London in connection "Tith the Hungaro -Csecho-Slovak frontier question, as to which he had given full explanations to M. da Gama» It had been arranged that representatives of the t\,rc parties should meet again under M. da Gama's Presidency on ah cut April 7 th. This date would net have to to changed, It had teen decided that 1.1. da Gama should circulrte no report to the Council until he had been able to discuss the matter with the two Governments. Summarised documents would, however, t circulated to all the Members of the Council ’"ho had already received the documents in bulk, and who ’-’ould, therefore, he able to study the question fully for the meet ing-.
He had seen Hr» ..ocd, who was to be the British representative at the next meeting, ^nd given him inform- tion on various ooints of the agenda. He had found him very anxious that the League's work shouc1 go on successfully»
ID,- had been struck by certain points in connection with the London Office, which he '"ould discuss with LI. Comu-rt on the letter's return.
"1HE SBCRLT^RY GDP Mil mentioned that LI.
Lhntoux had brought to his notice a declaration made by the Lithuanian Reprosontative, in the name of his
5-
Governr.ent, ut the Council Meeting of May 1922, urging that the principal Allied Povers 3hould he pressed to act under Article 87 of the Treaty of Versailles, as it was their right to do» This was, he thought, of importance in connedtion vith the present situation,
M, HARVARD thought it would he advisable to issue some statement oaloulated to clear up public opinion on the whole subject* Tin SECRETARY 075^53 AL thought that this dould be done at a public meeting of the next Council,
M, ?.IANT0tiX 3aid he was preparing a summary of the correspondence
1	j
exchanged since the last Council Meetirig, in which ha hoped to insert a paragraph which wot Id be useful in this respect*
DATS RACKET. CRO'TDY, in reply to MR. NIXON* daid that recent events head arouse! greatly increased interest* in Great Britain at any rate, with regard to the	League's work	on opium.	In thi3
connection, it wa3 important to	consider what	use could	be mode	in
public of information received from Members of the League with regard to illicit traffic, e.g. the recent letter from Canada regarding consignments from. Switzerland under false invoices.
The opinion was exuressod that, in spite of the fact tdiut Switzerland was involved, public opinion in that country would welcome full publicity.
M, M AHA RIA G A referred to the letter which, in accordance with the Council’s decision, had been 3ent to States not Members of the League informing them of	the intention	to hold a	Conference
for extending the principles of	the Mashinsrton Naval Reduction
Treaty, but not inviting them to attend. Ths Soviet Government had now declare l, through their renresentetive in London, that they would be pleased to attend the Conference. They had not,however, replied to our letter.
THR SMCRMTARY GRNRRAL referred. to the draft Assembly agenda which had been circulated on March 2l3t. Ho askei all Sections to examine it, in order to be able to discuss it fully on April 4th.
42
LSAGUS 0? IUT MS.
pistr il» ut ed to	Directors Meeting Do. 78.
under IJccretari es Gene ral
and Directors.	Geneva, April 3rd,. 1923,..
I.IIITU'TDS 0? DIRPC'PGRST . 11,1 ID G held on Wednesday, I.aroh S8th, 1923.
Present:-	Monsieur .venol
Dr, Nitobe Professor Rappard LI. liant oux M. Colban Sir Arthur Salter Dr. Rajchinan Hr. McKinnon food Li. Haa s II. Madariaga Dame Rachel Crowdy Mr. Sweetser Mr. Bioler
Mr. falters (Secretary)
1.
2,
M. AV3M0L said that telegrams had been sent out that ^morning summoning the Council for April 16th at Geneva.
SIR ARTHUR SALPRR gave a short account of the Rome Congress of Chambers of Commerce. It had been a useful
meeting, though not all the members had confined themselves strictly to work. Nothing sensational had been done on th Reparations question, but an important point was that the Americans there recognised for the first time the necessity of a Conference to discuss Reparations and Inter-Allied debts together.
e
It was notable that the Congress had followed \rery closely the league programme in its Resolutions regarding Customs Formalities, and had, in fact, based those Resolutions openly on the Conference programme.
He had addressed the Congress on the Austrian question, and had circulated his speech to a number of the members.
p
—
Eg had had conversations with the principal Italian officials who were interested in League affairs, and came away -it', the feeling tie.-1 co-op oration with the Italian Government presented no difficulty. Eo felt it -.'oula he
	useful if membors	of the secretariat	•'"'ont to homo more
	fre -neatly than Iv	:q been the- ease.	
•	hegetrations	for the hue trial! Lc	ng form loan acre
	no-“ b■■ ginning in	• endon, and - oulc" bo	foil ow c a by o i mi la r
itions for
r cacti „tiers in other capitals.
fro grass vr s being made with the the C ust ons C onx01 onc e. hr. 3 JEETSuR supv lenienteel Sir irthur . of the homo Congress. rho large number of noricans there r o gar clod the ’.hole guest ion of hnericon relati ons vith Europe as a business uosticn, :a; not as . political one.
number of then are going on to "ionna, and many would, no doubt, cone hero. re added th. t he expected a large numb• r of ii.ic.ricar visitors this summer, and apologised in advance for the- trouble which he would be convenin' to give the no no ers of the Secretariat.-
h hfCuh said he sympathised strongly with Sir rthur liter's point of view about .acre me. foe as or the Secretariat going to hone. There was a tendency to fool that liaison v/ith a bomber or the "-oaguc must be cxelusivcl assured by its nationals in the Secret riat. Tech liaison was necessary, but it was most important to uphold t _o principle that members of the ccretariat could heep in
id.is avilied
cont	.ct with	fever	nnents not	thoir o'/
no 13	only to t	a os- e	aho travc-11	efi on s ci
t-rp H“ :	t; j ' -\r> *|* Ip	i r ..	ection was	dealing,
cb.iect res limply to fere useful contacts for th„ fat a Eo himself -as unious to go tc home for this purpose. h-. .:'-'dfZ~Oh said he thought the uoint raised va.s
-3-
a most important one. Each case must, of coarse, 'be Judged on its merits.
8.
9.
10 .
11.
Ee congratulated _ir Arthur Salter on the admirable
he had done.
Mr. BI3LER said that the Budget estimates had non boon received from almost cv.ry Section, and indicated that tho league Budget would be about the same for 1924 as for 1923.
He load no certain indications from the I.l.O. or the Court.
The Auditor had been here for the last week, with two assistants.
M. MADARIAGA outlined the Bulgarian appeal to tho Council against the decision of the Cor.ferance of 'jab .ss-.ders to set up an Inter-Allied organ of control with headquarters
in Paris, to watch the execution of the military clauses
of the Treaty signed by Bulgaria, Hungary and Austria. Bulgaria
asked that the control should be exercised only by the league.
Under the provisions of the dreaty the question r.solved itself really into a question of fact, which had been laced op the agenda of the Council
At Santiago, Senor Ec.v/ards had been elected President of the Conference, and Mr. Pletchcr Presid nt of the Disarmament Commission.
12.	'Tith reference to Spanish ratification of the guarantee of a certain percentage of the Austrian loan, he learnt that this must be done by the Parliament, which did net meet till May. Actual ratification could, therefore, hardly be secured before June. He thought, however, that we could roly on it with absolute certainty.
SIH ARTHUR SALTER said it was wry important to h„ve some clear knowledge by tho time the ..ustrian Commission of Control met in the middle of next month.
13.	DAME RACHEL CR07.EY said the Committee cn
its VOTK. OB
Traffic in ./omen end •Jhildwm had. finished Liar eh 27th. It passed ten . .esolutions, 3 or 4 of v/hich were of great i:wport caice.
,ith regard to the main question before the Comaittee, there were three tyres of view:
f 1) abolitionists vino thought any progress desirable, and, therefore, accepted, the assembly suggestion.
(2)	Abolitionists who thought the suggestion involved league sanction of "naisors toleres" and, therefore, opposed it.
(3)	hegulationists who objected to the League dealing with the question at all.
The suggestion had, however, been approved by 4 votes to 2, with 2 abstentions and 1 member absent.
Other ¿resolutions referred to the appointment of women to the "Police des lloeurs” , and to the appointment by
the	Council of		an ezrpert	to investi g	ate the e	ntent	of the	
traf	f ic	BC ii 0 8 3	b il G J. XOxl b	iei in a few	typical	c ount r	ies.	It
v V 8.3 j	of	cour se,	understo	0 Cl üii r.t u *16	count ries	in qu	estien	
should consent			t o , and f	ac Hit ate, t	he ewpert	1 s wor	Xi. •	
		Lh j.Y.dl'OL said		Cxi B"fc b îiô O 0	omittee 1s	field	of wor	k
was	such	u il B b 1	t was not	always easy	t o know7	whethe	r it via	s
d ¿1	ing	. /X b xl lii	t er ne-, ti on	si ox \vi t> il il	Bbi OilS.L 0	uestic:	118 • b	ome
of t	he ±1	esoluti	ons menti	owed seemed	B b — _L — oT/	sight	to fall	
into	the	latter	cl ass.					
		In reply to a		question, Ha HOIilh		ChO'./h	Y said	
that	the	Commit	tee hoped	not to meet	again be:	fore t	he	
Asse.	ably	, unie.	s the Com	qcil modifie	its pro.	posals		
LI. ÏLüJ3 said
a ouo-hommitcee or tne
Transit Commission had met last week to discuss the draft
~5~
15.
Railway Convention,, lull agreement had been reached, not only between representatives of the different countries, but between representatives of private and of State owned railways. further, agreement had been reached between British and Continental representatives, and this augured well for the chances of adhesion from llorth and South American countries, whose system differed less from the Continental than from the British system.
The text now agreed on (alternative texts being proposed in certain eases) was a practical one, and would standardise progress vhich had been made individually in several countries. Still more important, it would form a cadre into which bi-lateral, regional, or Continental agreements could be fitted.
Bib. RAJC1LIA1 said that he had been struck with the ignorance ox most Committee members about League questions, which was unfortunate because on returning home these members were regarded as oracles about the League.
How could this be remedied? Clearly we could not give', lectures to these important persons, but we might try to conduct them round the Secretariat. large entertainments were of little use, and might even be positively harmful in the effect they had on the minds of the Committees.
The more often Committees met, and the nearer we approached the Assembly, the more important the question became, because these people were generally in the different
Delegations.
PALS RACHEL CROPDY said that half her Committee round the different had been most interested to receive the
she had taken about Sections, and they information given.
method, of informing Committee members of the League ’s work. Another consisted in personal relations with them, -not at large meals, tat at ones where the conversation was novo nacculant than the food.
He wished to draw attention, as he had frequently done in the past, to the desirability ox notioes being
placed in the Secretariat addresses of members of Co: He CbTB.U sail t' seek out’visitors, but all toll them about their worm they should bo brought by charge of the secretarial responsible for this?
shewing the names end G neva
mmitt ees,
hat lot directors had time t
were willing to receive them . mat it was necessary that somebody. Could the Section work oi each Committee be
o
and
in
run	said he would rather suggest that
the Information Section should be responsible. This it could easily undertake, since one of its members was told off to follow each Committee, and t ras got to know the members.
It vías agreed that the Information Section should be responsible in future that all members of visiting Committees who desired to do so should be conducted to the various Sections oi the Secretariat and told about the work.
further, the instructions to the hstablishment Officer to post up lists of the names and addresses of each O0..Ü-JLttee, when it met, should be confirmed.
h OOIihAT took up again the question or personal
vi si !
different capitals, of which he, like
„.pc bur
3vitor, felt the great importance. He had recently been to .-/arsau, where, though his visit had had special objects, he thought iu had been useful for general reasons. At Pragie tin same was

true. He found LG. Benes and his collaborators always glad to receive him raid ready to do ail they could to facilitate his work.
At huda Teeth he felt that the fact of a visit appreciated, ,.nd he had had discussions of a very frank
was
nature
on general, as well as on special, questions. The people he
met had welcomed a chance to explain their own situation, both economic, financial and political, aid this information would be of great use to hia. These eisons had naturally been mostly connected with the Government, but he had not been in any way hindered from seeing others. The officials concerned were looking forward with special interest to
coming to the Council Heeting next month.
he had paid only a very brief visit to Vienna.
Sir AGTHU3 S_JiTEE said he would add that it was useful for Government officials to make the acquaintance -not only of their own nationals in the Secretariat, but of the other members of the Secretariat dealing with Questions which affected them.
Dr. EAJCHLLJi said that he thought after the visit last year of some members of the Secretariat to
.gue,	it h	ad been decided:-	
(a)	To	arrange further visits	of the same kind.
ib)	To	follow un all contacts	then made.
There were many problems which the Teague alone could solve-, as it was in the way of solving the nastrian problem, which at present must be quoted riot as an example but as an exception* But those problems must be sought out,, and the people conce ned be made to see how the technical equipment of the league could be used to help them.
-8-
M. CC13.HI said the Secretary-General's visit to Belgrade had teen in accordance with the plan to which Dr. hajclman referred, Tine was a difficult question, hut plans were being considered for a visit this summer to houmania.
Dr. IIITOBE said that it was unfortunately difficult to visit so distant a country as Japan. Converse ly, however, many Japanese came here, and he and I'. !Tarada did their best to explain the working of the League, in which, in man;/ cases, remarkable interest was shewn«
he had just heard from Japan that they were expect ing the arrival of Dr. II or man hhite, and were making very complete preparations for making his visit a success.
The .Bibliography and University Delations Subcommittees of the Committee on Intellectual Co-operation had met in Brussels from March ISth to 24th, K. Desiree presiding* The work had been carried on on perhaps more practical and limited lines than 3 months ago. Thus the idea of starting an International Library had been given up in favour of arranging co-ordination between Libraries in different countries. He would be glad to give details ' of the proposals if asked.
H. ILD:PAID said he was sometir.es asked what practical result had actually been achieved by the Commission.
Dr. IIITOBE_ said they were, as yet, rather studying and recommending practical application of the various plans in hand. Something had been actually done in organising the exchange of scientific publications and assisting countries of low exchange - particularly .ustria - to secure them
43
13 AG US 03 HAT I OK S.
Distributed _ _t o
Directors Mi at
Geneva, April 7th, 1923
held on Wednesday, April 5th, 1925„
Present
Seers tary-Ge ner a 1 M. Avenol Dr, Kitote Sir Herbert Ames Dr, van Hamo'l
" " lan
»i uiiur Salter
H ,T	7 r	i
JV- , hanfcoux
Dome Rachel Crowdy
Hi C o mer t
oatastini
nrjvianm
ing ( Secretary)
1
fixed for the 15»th seemed likely to be of more importance than had been expected. There would be two cases of appeals to the Council under Article 11. namely, th°t from Hungary against the treatment of Hungarian optr nts in Roumania, and one just received from Bulgaria against the treatment by Greece of Bulgarians in V.'estern Thrace, In the latter case the intention to invoke Article 11, though not explicitly stated, was nevertheless clearly implied in the terms of the letter.
It looked as if, Western Thrace being probably still under
would merely have to be referred by the Council to then.
On the other hand, it might perhaps be possible to persuade the parties themselves to refer the Hungarian question to the Court, Otherwise,- there was nothing new, The Council would probably last about 10 days.
In the meantime he hoped, to look intc the question of the budget, especially as regards tie proportions between the budgets of the various sections.
The Secretary-General referred to his recent conversations in London with Mr- Edward Viood , the nor British representative, and with other members of the Government, lespite increasing pressure in Parliament there was evidently no intention of referring immediately the Ruhr problem to the League; firstly4 since no good was thought likely to result at the present time, and secondly, because the League's supporters in the Government feared the risk of destroying its -potential future utility in the matter. There was, however, no doubt that, thanks to confused ideas about the Covenant, the League's public popularity in Ingland was suffering,
The International Labour Office Finance Committee was now in session,. That office had recently undergone an enquiry into its internal organisation with results not altogether favorable. The criticisms might react also on the Secretariat; he had not, however,, discouraged a frank statement of the findings as he did not fear the consequences even should the Assembly be prompted to arrange a similar enquiry here.
He added that,, whereas the preliminary League estimates would show a decrease, the Labour Office, even apart from their deficits, were proposing an increase of 400,000 francs.
Sir HERBERT AMES said this was not unexpected,
M, AY aPOL said the impression he had formed in Paris was that the Govornment would await the occasion for a settlement of the Ruhr problem by the two parties alone. Meanwhile, the movement in favour of entrusting the League with some
3 -
important role in the ultimate solution was growing steadily, subject always, however, to doubts regarding its power of satisfying the need for security*
The SSCI!T:\RY GRlTlaÇAL said he wished something could be dene to stop the attacks, upon the "ineffective League", now appearing in many Ffencv newspapers. The Times correspondent had drawn particular attention to these articles.
If. AV:-iN0L said "The Times^ correspondent Was certainly inclined to emphasise unduly particular articles, as for instance, one recently printed in "Le Figc.ro".
il, COMERT said he had not noticed the attacks mentioned but he would make qnquirios.
The SLCRLTARY GLNI.RAL remarked that people in touch with Germany predicted a prolonged resistance grounded on the belief on the one hand that financial difficulties would
I
force France to move and on the other that trade interests would compel British or American intervention. This showed how difficult the whole situation was. Mediation to-day seemed out of the question. If a discussion were initiated in the Council by the British member* while he might perhaps obtain Swedish support, there wauld be French and Belgian opposition and for the rest, he helioved, a general abstention from voting.
A,	Mr, CuLBAIT said he had Just filed a summary study of tho
various Treaties governing the Greco-Bïlgarian question.
were
Meanwhile Mr. Azcarato and Mr, McKinnon/*7ood examining the legal side cf the Roumanian Hungarian problem, which ’-us apparently somewhat complicated, There were about 10 Saar questions on the agenda; he hoped to discuss those beforehand on the s it 'with members of the Governing Commission. There
)
would bo several Danzig questions; as regards the finances of the Free City replies had not yet leen received from the Reparations Commission and the Conference of Ambassadors; in the latter caso experience kept Site from being very hopeful as to an early reply.
The number of those items would serve to emphasise the necessity for the proposed Advisory Committee on administrative questions.
The SECRETARY GENERAL observed that a final decision cn this point could scarcely be expected at the next meeting of the Council.
Mr, CCLBAIT went on to say that the Rapporteur would probably propose a postponement of the Iatvian minorities question, the only one of that class on the agendau
As regards the procedure for dealing wi tli minorities petitions, his plan was to circulate the Polish and (when received) the Czechoslovak proposals and to draft a report thereon in sufficient time to invite the observations of other Governments before the Assembly; this should eliminate the chance of any Government adopting the same attitude as the Serbians had done on a previous occasion.
As regards the only Upper Silesian question, namely, the appointment of the President, German and Polish replies were still awaited. A vparush ¡¿lining expert had now been appointed.
He hoped uhat the Council would be persuaded to remain in session for a sufficient time to deal adequately with these various questions, which could not be neglected. Though the Polish and Danzig representatives would be arriving two days before the m eting he thought it impossible to feel sure that the session would finish within 10 cays.
The SECRETARY GENERAL said he feared M. da Gama would not be able to stay more than a week*
r
- 5 -
8.	Dr. Vàïï EbMBL, returning to the question of publicity, said he wished something could he done to counter the terrible abuse of the league in German payors, which would certainly prejudice the chance of Germany’s ultimate entry.
M, COUGHT laid stress on the great difficulty of this, describing how the Wolff agent had been compelled by bitter attacks in Germany to modify the friendly attitude he had up to a rocont date adopted towards the League.
The -SECRETAIff GLÎIGVM considered that the abuse should, and in any case inevitably must, be left to burn itself out.
9,	00MEET said he understood it was proposed that the Governing Body of the International Labour Office should postpono this year’s Conferenco for reasons of economy. This was in the first place contrary to Part XIII of the Peace Treaty and would, moreover, provide a subject for most damaging propaganda,
The SL G HIT h IY 0 LITERAL explained the true position: the Supervisory Commission on learning from him that only 85$ of the 1923 contributions were expected and that .Directors had agreed to limit expenditure accordingly, had invited M, Thomas to give a similar undertaking. M. Thomas explained his difficulties, describing how, having already relinquished 200,000' francs voted for an emergency increase of staff, his only moans of economising would be to disregard the Treaty and postpone the yearly Conference, The Supervisory Commission, while deprecating such a course, had left the question of how to secure a 15$ economy in the hands of M, Themas.
As a matter of fact, the Secretary-Generals private information was that tho change to a Spring Conference was air ■ iy desired by the Labour Office, firstly to avoid the Assembly season, and secondly , because Genova people would prefer it, Be therefore thought it was not fair to attribute the postponement pie roly to the failure of contributions.
IE«. CO MEET against insisted on the illegality of the proposed postponement by a Governing Body only partly representative of the smaller nations and on the serious effect of admitting that a want of funds was occasioning a breach Of the Treaty»
The SECRETARY-GENERAL said he personally could not very well oall attention to the legal point.
M. MANTCUX remarked that protests would probably bo welcomed as serving to show up the anomalous conduct of States which after voting and imposing tasks, failed to supply the necessary means.' As for tho Treaty, it was possible to argue that it would be fulfilled so long- as two conferences took place within two successive years.
Mr. C'CLBAE remarked that, while the Labour Office stood to gain, the League stood to lose by the impression that would be created; the steps should therefore be resisted.
Sir HERBERT AMES pointed out that in any case the defaulting States, namely, China, the Argentine and Roumania would remain uninfluenced by the resulting protests.
Sir ARTHUR SALTER considered the most serious feature to bo the attribution of the change to a falso reason.
Sir HERBERT AMES remarked that it really appeared doubtful whether business enough could be accumulated to jpstify a Confqronoe more frequently than once in 18 months.
The SECRETARY GEliERAL feared that ary representation on his part would merely evoke a request for the extra percentage
r
-7-
roquired for a Conference*
M- OOMERT again insisted that in his view no authority short of the Assembly, nr possibly the Conference itself, (meeting for the purpose for a single day) could legally sanction the postponement„
Mr- OATASTINT recalled that the Governing Bod;/, if it decided on the change, would bo overriding the decision of the last Conference, which had rejected the proposal to increase the periodicity to two years,
The SECRETARY-GENERAL again refer ref- to the history of the proposal and to the difficulty of interfering and said ho was not suro that ho know all M* Thomas1 reasons.
M, COLBAN considered the proper course would be to undeceive the public as to the economy protent.
CCHERT, insisting on the certain effects on the workers , on the small States, and on public opinion generally, also urges that something should be done.
The SECRETARY GENERAL pointed out that as the Governing Body would ho meeting almost at once any intervention must he undertaken without delay. He personally intended to take certain private action.
IE MANTQUX remarked that he doubted whether an application from the Governing Body to the Assembly would suffice, in view of the substantial disconnection between Part XIII and the Covenant.
The SECRETARY-GENERAL said he presumed the Governing Body would not act without at least the tacit assent of all the States.
LI. AYENOL and Mr, COLBAN reverted to the impropriety of
TV. . ■   -
giving a wrong reason and to the suggestions it might evoke for a re-apportionment of revenue and other inexpedient adjustments.
M. 0SLIERT said we should all be affected by any comments on the fact that while the Conference had to be suppressed salaries continued to be paid.
-B-
Mr. COLBAIi considered the Secretariat had a right to prevont the giving of untrue reasons which would rc-act to the detriment of the league.
Mo MANTOUX remarked that it was purely a question of presentation: tho labour Office should state the true reasons for its policy and add that, incidentally, considerations of economy pointed in the same direction.
The SECRETARY-GENERAL, in reply to a suggestion from 1£, Tillari, said that he feared engaging in discussion with the Governing Body lost they should disclaim any desire to see the Conference postponed provided tho funds -were forthcoming. It would ho very awkward to reply. Ivor was it proper to point to the comparatively large savings offoctod by the Secretariat; H*, Thomasf position was undoubtedly ono of very groat difficulty as the bulk of his budgot was made up of salaries.
Ur. VILIAM said he would try to discuss the matter with th Italian representative on the Governing Body.
Sir HERBERT AMES said ho would see the Canadian represents tive. Ho also remarked that the likelihood of a new payment by Persia had 'recently eased the situation and if either the Argentine or China paid up scron ho thought the Labour Office might be promised 904 oven though tho Secretariat contented itself with C5$ this year. It might indeed be bettor to bear a disproportionate share of the burden if this would render unnecessary the postponement of the C onferenco.
Dr? 3JIT0BSreferring to the death of Prince Kitashira-kawa, said that while tho political consequences would hardly be important, he felt that th© League had lost a friend, the Prince having in fact been the only member of the Japanese Royal family well acquainted with its work.
The SECRETARY-GENERAL said he remembered the Prince13 visit to Geneva; his loss was certainly a sad one for the League.
-9-
DALIE RACHEL CROWLY asked what ought to to done with a gift of 1000 franco received for the Social Section from an American lady visiter.
Sir HERBERT AMES replied that technically it ought to appear as an "appropriation in aid" in next yoarrs 'budget. The sum of £5 francs offered on an earlier occasion for the Library had been returned.
The SEC RE T ARY - G HIT EH AL thought it might ho hotter to suggest that the money should ho given to the Non-Partisan Association in Now York, or hotter still, (in accordance with a suggestion from Lame Rachel Crowiy) it might he sent direct to Miss Joppo. Otherwise a b^d precod' t might ho sot.
Sir HERBERT AMES doscrihod the hearing ho had recently boon given by a House of Commons Committee, on League finance.
Of the throe questions in which tho greatest interest was shown, the present barOmo had been very temperately criticised; tho proportion cf outstanding contributions had boon hailed as surprisingly low; and tho instances ho had been able to cito of large results from small expenditure had "told" most effectively of all. She particulars supplied to him by Sir Arthur Salter of how the two million pound British loan to Austria, at one time regarded as a bad debt, had, under a League scheme - the cost of which to Croat Britain did not exceed ££00 - come to ho guaranteed with a real prospect of re-payment, constituted one of the best League arguments in Great Britain to-day. He also understood from Mr. Bartlett that this item had been eagerly seized upor net only by the British but also by the American and Canadian press.
40
hqtributefl to p^er-Ü e'er 3 tarjes-General )jrectors.
lEuGUZ OF RATIONS.
Directors Mooting 80, Genova, April 13th, 1323,
Present:
mihutes oi1 directors' meeting
held on Uednosday. April 11th, 1923.
Secretary-General M, Avenol Dr. Pitóte Dr. van Hamel Sir Herbert Mes Mr, Oolban Sif Arthur Salter Professor Rappard M, Comert Dame Hachel Orowdy Major Abraham M. Madariaga Col. Hiam M, Villari M, Arocha.
Mr. Manning (S e c retary). 1 2
1.	The SECRETARY-GEHZRAD said that, in order as nearly as possible to suit Mr. Branting, who could only arrive on the 19th at the earliest, if at all, the Council Meeting had been postponed to the 17th; several members had boon unable to agree to a later date. For the earlier meetings Mr. Branting would bo replaced by Mr. Unden and if possible any questions specially interesting Mr. Branting would bo reserved till his arrival - in particular the Greoo-Bulgarian question for which it was hoped ho would act as Rapporteur.
Major ABRAHAM said it seemed likely that the new Swedish Premier would bo Mr. Trygger, and that Mr. Branting would not cease to re.resent Sweden on the Council.
2.	The SECRETARY GEHZRAL said it was a striking fact that, at the next Council meeting, every central-European and Balkan State except Turkey and Yugo-Slavia would have a representative
«*■2-
upholding- its point of view on somo question or other. Having regard to the opinions expressed in son quarters that most events had seriously undermined the authority of the Longue,, the Information Section might perhaps find it worth while to emphasize this point..
Rather a serious situation seemed to he developing at Yh International Labour Office, whero tho Finance Oommittee of the Governing Body was now in session. He could sympathise with the Labour Office; but at tho same time they had probably beon unwiso tc admit an enquiry by one national Government into what was strictly an international organisation.
As regards the date of the next International Labour Conference, he had tried to strengthen the hands of those who wire «Opposing its postponement; if invited he would bo prepared to attend and give evidence as to the improvement of the financial outlook and to guarantee an extra 5% of tho Labour Office Budget, if this would savo the Conference: it might be well to,maintain this attitude of readiness to help.
He was very grateful for the tig efforts to economise which were represented by all the Section 3udgets he had up to r.Lat time examined. He was, however, a little troubled about the pr> portion asked for by the Health Section, though it was easy to understand the tendency of any Committee to attach undue importance to its twn a?trk as compared with the general activities of tho League If the total estimates this year could be made to show a reduction of one million francs, ho hoped that the Supervisory Commission would not press for further cuts.
The Council would need nominations for two or three substitute members of the Supervisory Commission - preferably nationals of States not members of the Council. He thought of suggesting a Scandinavian in Mr. Zahle, a former President of the Fourth Committee
-3-
Ke
would like the
Latin-America Bureau, to
think about a nomination
for Latin America.
Dr van HAMEL reported that the Drafting Committee, which had boon wot' ing on a final draft for a Convention by which States would agroe * uphold tho validity of arbitration clauses in commercial contracts, had now completed its work. The Council would, he presumed, place the text before Governments with an invitation to sign the protocol. The principal State for which this would involve a change of practice was France, where the local law was so interpreted as to make such clauses enforceable only in exceptional circumstances.
In reply to Mr. Avenol he added that analogous provisions in the laws of Holland, Belgium, and Italy had not been found to causo the same difficulty.
The present draft stood, he thought, a good chance of being favourably received in France, except by tho tribunaux de commerce ana by the solicitors whose interests might be affected. Legal objections might, however, be expected at the Assembly and it was, therefore impossible to make definite predictions.
Major ABRAHAM said M. da Gama had convoked the representatives of Czecho-Slovakia and Hungary to meet m Paris on the 12th and try to prepare for submission to the Assembly a solution of the boundary question.
The Sub-Committee of four members, deputed by the. Council at its last meeting to select a financial adviser for Albania, were now considering the Financial Committee’s nomination, Mr. Branting and Mr. Salandra had already approved, but France and Great Britain had still to reply.
Sir A-rthur SALTER sard he hoped next Saturday’s meeting cf the Commission of Control for Austria would sottle definitely the conditions■for the long term loan.
-4-
Messrs. Constable, the London Publishers, in a recent conversation with Mr, Loreday had made two suggestions. The first was that the different Sections should adopt different standard colours for their pixblications ; this it seemed would be a great convenience and the Publications Section was understood to have no objections. Despite the principle of uniformity adopted by a DirectorsT meeting somo time back great variety still prevailed.
V'hilc admitting that grey might still be used for all that class cf publications likely to be bought for the authoritative information On general League activities they contained, he thought the technical opinion of the publishers should be accepted for the opposite class cf those which people would take up- casually to see what the League had been doing.
Mr. 0PLEAD agreed that this distinction should be drawn and freedom allowed as regards the colour of the second class; adding, howover, that a similar freedom should apply in the matter of size and s hape.
Professor RAPPARD said the experience of publishers led them to favour the smaller sizes. The whole question was however more complicated than it looked. It was agreed to leave the matter to the Committee on Official Distribution and Printing, who should prepare a definite scheme in consultation with the Sections interested.
Sir Arthur SALTER said Messrs. Constable's second suggestion was that a point should be made of giving the publishers advance particulars while new publications were still in preparation, Mote was taken of this by the Chairman of the Committee on Official Distribution and Printing.
Mr. ARQCHA said he thought M. hoguoira was now at Santiago, though his last communique had eome from Montevideo.
Mr., COLBAJT garo a confidential account of his recent visit to the Saar and the situation theronnd the questions likely to ariso out of it at the next Council mooting.
Professor RAPPARE stated that as the Marquis Thoodoli could not arrive ho fore the evening of the 2Cth, it would be necassary to dispense with his presence at the discussion of the Mandates item, Sir James Allen being due back in London on the 21st,.
Referring to the attitude of the judges at the Hague
the
towards/American controversy regarding the dependence of the Court on the League, he said that, while M. Huber had given up the idea of publishing an opinion, Mr. John Bassett M^ore was coming out for the essential independence of the Court.
Mr. AROCHA said that Urugay being reported to have withdrawn its adhesion to the scheme for a Pan-American League, Ke thought it unlikely that the present proposals of Costa Pica would come to anything. A Pan-American Court seemed to him equally improbable.
Dr. van HAMEL said there was little to fear from any Courts that might he set up by limited groups of States; on the Other hand Judge Moore's present attitude made him rather anxious as also did a tendency exemplified in the draft Treaty of Lausanne to entrust the Court with functions not strictly judicial.
The SECRETARY-GENERAL thought it best to disregard any views that, the Judges, in their desire to meet American opinion, might be.prompted to express; he was content merely to emphasise President Harding's and Mr. Hughes' official presentation of the position:	the Court was not and could not he separate from the
League; and it was perhaps a good thing that the election of a Judge at the next Assembly would bring this fact into timely prominence He agreed with M. Coraert as to the importance of finding a worthy successor to M, Ruy Barbosa,
-6-
Professor RAPPAPJ), referring to the recent rcorudosoenoe of press interest in the question of slavery, on which the Council would he reporting to the next Assembly, said only the most meagre particulars had as yet boon supplied and the British Government would probably be deterred from communicating their information regarding Abyssinia by an unwillingness - without the co-operation of France and Italy - to proceed to the steps logically indicated by that informati on.
The SECRETARY-GEIvERAL thought the best plan would be for Professor Rappard to prepare a few notes on which an informal discussion might be based with the three interested members at the Council meeting. The Secretariat might then by a request addressed to all three Governments olioit the particulars in question. The Assembly might later support a recommendation for joint action by the three Governments..
31
Cor-fidential.	LiMuc-a P.b HMriuiM „
Pistributed to	Directors Meeting Ho .81
Under Secrotarles-General ana Directors .
Geneva, April 26th, 1323.
MIMITZS OI1 DMAXTORS1 IIIIMIIIG held nn ïïeinosday, April 25tL , 1323.
Present:
Secretary-General « Monsieur Avenal Dr, llitobe.
Sir Herbert Ames.
Mr. Colban,
M, Comert.
M, Villari,
Mo Madariaga.
Dr. Van Hamel.
M. Rappard Dr. Ranchman.
M» Sydenstricker.
Sir A. Salter.
M. Mantoux.
M. H aas o
Dame Rachel Crowdy.
Mr. Gilchrist.
Mr. Swoetsor.
Mr. Walters (Secretary)
1.	IKE SECRETARY GAMARAL said that it was difficult to
judgo the real results of the Council Meeting, but he now felt that on balance the total of achievement was not unfavourable to the League. He had definitely reached the conclusion that a Sunday meeting was a mistake, and that too continuous work led to a state of mind unfavourable to fruitful discussions. The only question left outstanding was the dispute between Hungary and Roumania, on which he had reason to think that Boumania would shew a fairly conciliatory attitude.
If the situation of the League wore not very satisfactory this was because it was suffering from the condition of passive warfare between France and Germany, and once the relations between
-2-
thoso two countries were placed on a stable basis, the whole situation would be changed, and the League would cope successfully with all the difficulties which now baffled it.
In reply to an observation of II. BLPPLHD regarding the Unsatisfactory situation in the Saar, ho said that this was a part of the Franco-German question, and that in dealing with it both sides treated it as a part of the whole question and lost sight of tho interests of the inhabitants.
II. RAPPhKD suggested that tho League stood towards the Saar population during the present crisis in the same relation as a neutral Government towards its citizens during the war, i.e. it was bound to preserve their neutrality and to guard their prosperity against the interests of either antagonist.
M, COL33A1I pointed out that the parallel was not exact, because the League included one of tho parties who, as a Member of the League, was none the loss entitled to pursue its own national policy.
II. COLBAh said that he had ashed that the Press communiqué Ko. 793 should bo discussed at the meeting. In the past he had boon strongly criticised by tho French Delegation for giving less space to the arguments on different points of the Governing Commission than to those of the German Government. In the communique ih question, practically no space at all was given to M, Branting1 s expose, while that of Id. Rault was summarised at considerable length. This was particularly unfortunate, in view of the fact the M. Branting had been exposed to serious attacks in the Press on the subject, and the result of this communiqué could only be to encourage criticism of him in the Swedish Press. Further, the report of what Mr. Wood said was incorrect in detail and incomplete. It even gave the impression that he had opposed LI. Branting. The impression given was thus misleading, and though
-3-
tfcis was, of course, entirely unintentional, it made him consider
it desirable to draw attention to the great political importance of
some of our conrnunicues in the present situation, and to suppost
that it was better to give only very brief communiaues on such a
question than to risk dangerous results..
that
TLh SJCBhTlEY-Ghihld'-Ah said,/ the British Delegation was dissatisfied with the report of Hr. Wood’s speech. He had approved the communique as a whole, but had suggested certain additions to the summary of what Mr.hood had said, which, unluckily, seemed to have been overlooked at the late hour (2*30 p.n.) when the Council broke up and the communiqué was drafted. He would like to know what in Comert thought of the possibility of consulting in such a case the Secretaries of Council Members on that part of the communiqué dealing with the speeches of thoir chiefs, although he knew that the time factor was of importance in the matter.
II. 0CC.M.T said that the meeting with which the communique dealt was a long and difficult one, and it was evident that the communiqué would bo difficult, It had been decided, with the Secretary-General’s approval, that it should be of some length, in view of the interest of the subject. He, therefore, arranged that it should be drafted in concurrence by Messrs, Cummings and Eoden, and after being seen by himself and Hr. Swcotser, it was shewn to Mr. Gilchrist ("Mr. Colban declining) and to the Secretary-General, He thought,therefore, that all that was possible had been done from a Departmental point of view.
As regards the contents of the communique, ho thought that the space given to the two sides, viz. M. Rault, on ono side, and MH„ Branting and Wood on the other, was about fair. Ho had discussed it after publication with M, 3rantingrs Secretary, who expressed no criticism of the summary of what H. Branting had said* With reference to Hr, Wood’s speech, he had thought that the final
4-
draft took account of the Secretary-General^ suggestions, and regretted that it aid not do so with sufficient clarity*
The way in which the German, British and French Press dealt with the question showed that the communique had in no way misled them, but that they had well understood the facts of the
matter from the communique,
TEE SECRETARY-GEE A jAL 3; d d tl.at details of the communiqué might bo consid M* Gomort to give his view on the general forward.
the discussion on the erei as closed, and asked suggestion he had put
II„ CQihh'.T said that the suggestion would, in practice, be very difficult. The Council Secretaries would certainly refer to their chiefs, and other Council Members would expect to see the communiqué before it was given out also. The suggestion referred to cases of a controversial nature, hut these were just the ones on which journalists desired to send telegrams promptly,
If they had to wait 2 or 3 hours after the meeting ended, choy would send off their own telegrams, and oven if they subsequently sent our communique, it wo Id not bo printed. lurtber, he thought there must be a general rule on the subject, host discussions were interesting to one or another Council Member, and once you initiated a system of submitting the Press communique, you would have to do it in every case. Again, if in a report of a discussion between X and Y you submitted separately to each the account of his statement, if X altered seriously the report of his argument, you would have to give Y a further chance of revising his, and so on,,
¿1. AVEIvOL thought should be borne in mind, and a common communiqué was meaningless. The result
that the case of the Supreme Council There, there was no proper Press service drawn up which, in fact, was perfectly-as that each side gave cut what it
y
thought fit to its own journalists, and the result was deplorable, making agreement and compromise practically impossible, Much the best system was to have an Information Section giving a genuine and impartial comraunique »
M. COLB Ai» said he thought the Secretary-Generalrs suggestion was not possible, and again suggested that in such a special situation the communiqué should be as brief and formal as possible. He could not exaggerate the necessity for caution in tliis matter.
M, OOiBP.T pointed out that in this case it had been specially decide;" to make a long communiqué. The SEGRGTAMY-GEHSEAL said he had agreed to that decision, but that the result of the present case was undoubtedly serious, and it might be wise to adopt M. Colbanrs suggestion for the present in Saar (questions.
M, 0 GLEET agreed to consider it, but thought that a long communique was the best.
Hr. 7AN ElIISL urged the desirability of a short communiqué giving at tho same time all encouragement to journalists to put forward on their own initiative the different sides of the case.,
II. Mill'AH I AG A said he thought the present system worked very well, and though he did not think tho communiqué in question was a successful ono, it did not seem a sufficient reason for altering the system as a whole..
THE SECEETAP.Y-GEHEBAL in summing up the discussion said ho thought it seemed generally agreed:
That a separate decision should be taken the next
time a similar case arose as to whether the communique should be
long or short, and if it was decided to have a long one, M» Corcert
around
should take care that it was shewn/to everybody concerned in the Secretariat, and perhaps be drawn up by the method of getting individual Members of the Information Section to summarise the arguments of their nationals on the Council.
-6-
M., 0OI.CH?? sail that this could hardly he made a general rule, and that in the present case he had gone as near it as possible =
•	L-1I, GOUBAR and YAH HALE I said they continued to believe
in the suggestions they had respectively put forward,
Sir KEP.BEDT AMES summed up the discussion: "Hot guilty
this time, hut don't do it again"« Assemhly Agencla0
The ShGRhloJvY-GgHhhAl asked for any comments on the draft agenda, to which must he added the Irish application and the demand put forward by Lithuania at the Council Meeting, He proposed that item 13 (Technical Organisations) should he divided int>* three separate items,
This was agreed to«
hr. 7Ab H.AMJ.L said he would send a revised form of
iten 10,
The ShOhhTiHT-OEITShAL said ho hoped to take the Section Budgets at the beginning of the Supervisory Commission meeting next week, in order to enable certain Directors who wished to do so to go away a short time«
It had been suggested that it was possible to realise seme economy in the circulation of documents inside the Secretariat« He thought the Committee on Dree Distribution might discuss the matter «
The SECIlBT£nY-GEI>ERAh said that Dr. Ranchman and Mr »Gilchrist were going to-morrow night to the United States. He suggested that any Section which wanted to entrust any particular mission to them should soo them before that time, and that there should be a general meeting for anyone interested at 3.30 on April fgnh.
I.I, CCLBAU said he hiped at the next Directors' Meeting that information might be given as to the situation between Czechoslovakia and Hungary, as to which some alarmist telegrams appeared in that day's Press.
Uhl
Zi)
fiOPfl¿anti&l
r»TT“I?	07	V '• fpT Mi -i
vvj U xi ^ J.	i.. ilLi O
"i ¿ L X 1 D II Lr V á_tj 0
Secret; ries General irectorsc
Directors Meeting 1I°82 r
•re,
-t
t> J
ujM
Geneva, May 14th.19 23.
Mil MILS OF DIEFCYOHs1 MELT IDG, hela on Friday, May 11th61923.
Seer	eta	ry General
Dr.	I it	oce
j.1. 0 X..	ant	oux
Sir	her	cert iones
_ roí	ess	or Eaunará
M. Comert
M. Madariaga xi. Yill- ri M. van Itterson
Mr. Manning, Secretary
SECELA .EY GEDÜEI 1 said the outcome of the meeting of
tne supervisory Commission had been, on the whole, very satisfactory, /.part from the general tendency in all countries to cut Civil Service estimates to a minimum, the Commission hac; had a special incentive to the strictest economy in the initiative of the Governing Body of the Labour Office which had recently pressed for very considerable
reductions in a staff regarded by them as unnecessarily lari
:cr
the execution of a policy of which, in itself, they entirely approved. While he had had little difficulty in showing that the League’s situation was not cnalagcus, he had been repaired to indicate the order of importance in which he would ranh the several spheres of League activity. In reply, he had placed first the Political Section, as concerned with the peace keeping functions of the League, next he had grouped those activities - namely Opium. White Slave, Mandates, Permanent Armaments, Economic ana Financial.
2
wore
and Health - which expressly imposed by the Covenant. There remained, as not obviously so imposed - and therefore ns clearly temporary tho work for Rugsit n Refugees; that of the Health Section would, indeod, have been on scarcely surer ground, had not the amount of the Rockefeller Grant boon based on that Section's budget for last year. The item for Intellectual Cc-operation, in the absence of similar accidental protection, had been heavily curtailed.
Tho total resulting reductions, as against the 1923 estimates, came to 3 1/2 millions : two in tho league ls budget, and 1 1/2 in that of the labour Office; which latter saving was, however, in effect, neutralized by tho figure required for the repayment by tho labour Office of its advances out of Working Capital. Talking also into account a proposed increase of 800.-0C0 in tho Working Capital fund and 400.000 provided for pensions, the 1924 budget shewed a net decrease of 600.000 franc, .
■din HERBERT ..HE 3 agreed that next year there could be no question of economising beyond a very small percentage of the budget„
Q'HE SECRETORY GEH3R. 1 expressed the hope that Directors might find it possible to send in thoir lists of subjects for the provisional .agenda of tho next Council .iceting on cr before tho 26th., Hay, Rs concerned tho detailed examination of tho Budget, the Council might bo expected, on the precedent of last year, merely to reserve tho rights cf its .lenders u.-til the time of the Essembly.
His own. plans had somewhat changed: Warsaw on June 1st and, after visiting Danzig, he hoped to bo back by the 18th. He felt it ve
he would start for rrague, and Vienna ry important to be
)
in Geneva for the meeting
of the Opium Committee on Hay 24th.
Hr. Porter, the Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee of the
3
Û G	Hoc	vJÛ	of F.eg	re., e:
1 1	jha	he a	GLø * û	ogdu:
.’ev.ei.tivtives, hitherto a strong and entire
colie;.7, especially nc re-sti tea "by the third . .ssenbly, would ho coming over at the head of a cousia:. ruble Leleiation.
Erg,	_ ij.1	Oil s io.	i-G C G a. 10 VO G. —t .. Oui G	be possible :
iet	the	critic is	n CX X il G oXLp 6 X VX G 0 ~C~7	Commission by
holding fewer meeti: committees.
K0 11 hi
ox the Intellectuel Co-oweration sub
said he v;cs -moins: to London for the
f the	Cecil out	1 O o	mmittee	X 0 d i 3 0 U G 3 X h 6
in the	light of	th	e observ	V tic I xo p X 0 —
sented by	x ixo	fermanont	c vis o ry	C ommis,
the out cor	io w	ould be some	comerot	lise be
£Gt VG C i t 0 3	OX	gonore 1 and	pa rt i n 1	treat if
	l.X	COhEP.l sc id	4 n4- 7 -0 II'-- U Ijx j	0 ’ll r/\T"'T
die r spectire
h-. j Jl 0 x .. a.-.
U O o
wes urrs totament ¿:ecricinw the
,ac»r to c outrun ica o e sc tisf. etc r;,r
rrisory Commission's meeting and declaring hi
to the ire, results of
readiness to accent full respons!biiity for the figure to which
U ¿LS t aC.w L UaG. .¿C c te O.i re U clOc.C o j-tx. Oa	V.. e c11 tixO ^.c.. .iO tle.O
well—hxxO- x.j i..Go ;,Oi.ccet UixC. ussociuteo ^iiL a financially gu.occvjc3.ul
Q ciiiQ .Vir <■ i G Ol.C XiclX I'O
Cover mien	vt ; it would	certainly	oc oî ggvoiitco^ro	if
could be	reappointe 1	at the one	OX t iiG j>jG3fc»GI_t	VG
it would he a good thing if hr. Osuzky were to see I,h Hubert, the author of recent proposals in the French senete for sweeping reductions in the League Budget - prop ose Is apparently inspired lei by hostility to the League than by fund-mental misapprehension ns to its constitution and working.
sHOPESaOH Fh .F.L reminded the meeting of the decisions
under :	greenert to	pre		t to the r.
.very. L	irile the fi	cts	pc .r	ticul ily i
lyssinie	, the Ass era	idy	had.	deemed it
— —
limit i;	:g the fi	eld	of	enquiry. I
.G vh. oi QI.x.	_■_ ire had	bo	en -	p0ii"L be c-.li
it diplomatic to avoid expressly limiting th conformity with instruction;
Government«, but Ltd hitherto produced only lb replies, none of tnem conta.iniug aixy very iu^^ruC b xw ¿Lot-1- , insro seemed a re- 1 danvcr thai
jia j* 0	ort for \ahich	public opinion v	;a.s anxiously
_t come	to so litcie	as seriously to	harm the League
would	be a peculiar	position if the	Council were to
prestige. J
present v report ofitting important details hnovn to be in the
possession ox the Governments represented thereon, through the
Gvvw run ants
unvilliiynv ss of these/ to bring their note rials into the commor
On tin	other h	L 1x6 ,	the	becretariet, in collecting data.
wiu.cil1 s	report,	did	not	seem to be limited to the result
.0 questio	nw ire.	It V	oulfi	however be difficult in proctic
upon unox	ficia.l	O C11J? G	GC	-ithout risning the charge of
...	____ ____________ _	____ _______	.	____ _ A . to
C: r-
orbit refiueso.
id he understood that a french _d devote conoid-; re bio attention
y job-iTiiC. ■ phi y bo 02uj_t 1jC£G 0^7 I'OCO'J.I'.J
to private sources; for instance, the Council could clearly maleo use of certain Liue-boohs -..•hich the British Cov-eranont had declare
1 U li_:ttvi.:X'10n OX ijliO i V lg pU.Dx_i-vh.lii? Oli XXpa X uD J V e J , 1 UlG U Up— i Ti j
		T".u	h'Tnf-TLT.'ro ■pv r*ir O.s'C-.x---. *.I JZj	ILL. .
reply 1		vos in	^ I'u 0L.l'c.l/1 Ox*	hich
to	Lby	u U li li ' •	1 i-1 o Ci 00 HIOil	x mi;
the	1*0	wqr„ the regort		from the Landstory _ov	ers;	special atte	Lit lO
r*-. *> nifg	V -v	xxt-tin•. J.y do d_	VO	tod to the tovritories	for	-.'hich the Lc	c 11C
had	cl	spocifil r spoi.s	ib	ilit* , Moreover, could	not	ade qua to on	1 C 1 c^
materials to clicitoc at any ra.to regarding the territories administered by the Council hovers ?
f BOFL3cQfc JL- -UHI v:as , honorsr, afreid th; t oven this
ixig	ht bo	difficult; the	British	report, for	instance ,	IHc. ^ G 1x0
mex	.tion	of the comeotic	slave ry	notoriously	prov lent	111 fj: HZ
Chough on this latter point other officii. 1 sources wore indeed
5
ac	ce	ssible		. »'r-	e same	d	ICL	not ho	Id of sia	ve	ry in , byss	ir:	ia	tv o J, Lux t?	
pr	irnary		ob	ject	of the		V lx	ole ¿on	curry.						
		-		THE	SECRET.	A:	Y_	GEuERdh	remarked	b	hat as the	re	Sp	onsibil	ity
fo	r	the	f i	nal	report		ou	Id lie	with the	Co	uncil it wa	s	un	necessa	ry
fo	r	the	be	cret	Ll X1 cd- „	i	11	submitt	mg ext ra	ct	s from ofzi	o i	al	docume	nts
to	t	Q-kG	a c	c cun	t of the		id	use e pt ib 1 1 it j.e vj		of	tho severs	1	Go	vernment s.	
				m cor rypn1		lr	ow	overc s	aw diffie	ul	ties in whe	-a		emod	
to him to amount to supplying the answers pointedly withheld by the Governments. At least it might be well to give them some warning of the intention to quote from sundry official sources.
At all events the relative unimportanco of a given State should in no such case bo deemed to excuse the omission of any normal formality,,
'J25 SECPAA'RY GEAEH.rh thought it would bo unwise to give Governments the opportunity to object in advance to what was proposes. The Council was clearly not limited to the questionnaires,
M, ILAIAHIAGA pointed out that the studies of the Armaments Commission were often based 3 to an important extent, on unofficial documents,
THE SBOFuBlCABY GE.KK3AX suggested that it might be feasible unoffioiali.y to press for fuller information from the limited number of countries specially concerned; he referred particularly to those countries with dependencies where domestic slavery might possibly prevail. Alternatively i i; might perhaps to the best plan to propose that, in view of the r or grenoss of replies received and the difficulty of sifting other materials at the ¿Secretariat, the Council should hand over the whole enquiry to the formanont Mandates Commission as feeing the only tody fully qualified for tho tush.
6
iThic alternative course was generally welcomed as a convenient solution; it would bo a useful encouragement to the ? cruuGnont Mandat os Commission and, by enlisting the collaboration of so groat an authority as Sir Frederick lugard, would probably result in tho presentation to the 1924 hssonbly of a really valuable report.
4-^ ! CD
3î
rpa
IB A GUE
NATIONS,
ribu te 1 to
r-^Secre tarie a General pire'c'toraT'......
Directors T	Me e	ting No r84
n .t-.-. . v- •_* v	May	19th, 19 S
I.TINUTPS _ OP P IRE 0 TORS1_lÆ'NTI NG^
held on Wednesday, May 16th, 13P3-.
ppv
NT:
Bear e t,ary -Gen er al Dr. Ni to he professor Attolico
IIo Man GO ax
Dr. van Kamel Sir Horhort Arr.es proies s or RapparcL Sir Arthur Bailor ID. 0oir.ert M. Haas M, Deris Mr. Hosting
Mr. Manning	(Secretary)
THE SHCRRTARY--GBNKRAD said that as Mr. Colban!s hands would be very full with other matters on his return, M. Mantoux had kindly agreed to take over the question of the Hungarian Optants in Rourrania; this subject had never been very definite a "minorities" rather than a "political" question, M0 Adatel had offered to hear the parties in Brussels towards the end of I,lay , and it was hoped that LI. Titulesoo1 s difficulties with regard to the suggested Gatos would not prove insuperable; at any rate discussions could he held on the E7 bh and 2bth,
The Saar strike had, hnnpily, been settled, It was to he
hoped that LI. Rault would take the present opportunity for deciding, without loss of dignity, either to modify the Extraordinary Decree or, better still, to supersede it by a special law.
4.
As regarded the Council's proposal that Mr. Colban should visit Bucareso to examine the Minorities question, certain difflout .iss were presenting themselves, consequent on the fii.tr.ly hostile attitude towards the Minorities Treaty taken by M. Bratiano at Versailles:	the present Government was very
sensitive towards anything resembling an investigation,.
M, Dianandi, their representative at Lausanne, was meanwhile urging that ho, the Secretary-General, should visit Roum.ania in October; which did not, however, dispose of the need either for a report by the Council to the Assembly or else (what should certainly be less acceptable to Roum.ania) the putting of the question on the Assembly Agenda by ore of the Council States«. lie hoped shortly to hear from. 1L Luca agreeing to a visit by Mr. Ooiban as one of a larger
delegation sometime in July.
ST?	SALTER, upon an enquiry from SIR HTH3HRT AMES,
referral to Hungary’s recent application to the Reparations Commission for a postponement of her financial obligations. Hungary was, in short, on the same road - though not so far along it- on which Austria had been checked* 'tilth a roughly equivalent population, Hungary’s currency depreciation stood at l/5OOth as against l/l5,0CCth in Austria’s case; the Budget deficit was one-half to one-third of what Austria’s had been;
while production, both industrial and agricultural, showed a heavy decrease since before the war, In Paris he had rather gathered that the Reparations Commission wore considering favourably the scheme put to them, by the Premier and the foreign Minister of Hu: vary, This had obviously been drafted with an eye on the Austrian precedent, though avoiding mention
of the questions of control and guarantees. The loan figures
~3~
su firmes ta 3 were -roughly similar, the period &sj«>cl_ towewer, for ‘ attaining monetary equilibrium. "being six year s as against two -, Though no specifio suggestions had as yot been examined on the point, it seeir.e 1 not at all unlikely that the decision reached would result in the question eor.ing before the League's Financial Committee, This would, he thought, pre-supposo the grant of some postponement of the liens. The Italian attitude seemed to be favourable - perhaps rather more so than that of France and of the petit Entente, the smaller States hesitating, as they had at first dene in the case of Austria, to assent to the remission of Hungary's obligations without securing corresponding concessions for themselves.
5c	In answer to a further question from Sir Herbert Ames,
TEE SECRETARY-Ah said that at present he was not sure that he could adequately explain Mr. PORTER'S designation to represent America on the Opium Commission. He suspected, however., that the Administration had concluded that the League’s was,
H
after all, the only machinery for handling the opium, problem, and accordingly meant to give its foremost opponent an opportunity for testing his views in presence of the realities of the situation. Mr. porter was, of course, net necessarily altogether mistaken; India's anxiety to continue p: educing for internal consumption might possibly not bo without some financial basis. As a compromise she might perhaps agree to limit, not production, but export - to the needs of nonproducing countries.
IM LEE IS remarked that the League might find Mi,. Porter's great influence a useful means of bringing India into line, provided the Americans could be led to accent a reasonable
alternative
-4-
TH7i3 SRGRRTARY-G L RRRAL agreed that the ha .piedt outcome would be some compromise which, while feasible in practice, o JUld be hailed in America as a porter victory,
PRQRRSIOR RAPPARI) also stressed the importance of Mr. Porter's petting satisfaction; though he much feared the opposite possibility.
m-rp? pro dEH4RY~GRHRR AL however, found great encouragement in the quality of Hr. Porter's advisers, and in the very fact of his willingness to undertake the journey.
It was generally agreed that the hospitality to be shown to the American visitors must not become so demonstrative as to endanger its own object.
6«,	j, HARTOUX referred to the tendency of certain of the
french newspapers to accept the allegations of extravagance recently brought against the League by M„ HUM It?«. He agreed with In Gomert that a public declaration by M. OS'JSKY might bo useful. SIR HERBERT AMES wondered if practical steps might not be taken to convince the public how very thoroughly the League finances were in fact controlled - indeed perhaps over-controlled. 'YouId it be helpful to draw up a detailed explanation of the machinery?
PR0RXS10R R-^?PARD considered it a disquieting feature that II. Hubert's attack had evidently been assisted by such a thorough documentation. 'Yho could have supplied it?
THE "’RdRL^ARY-a'MHRAL feared that little could be done by way of defence against charges so absurd.
-5“
7 c
tí o
DHc VAN HAMEL referred to the very unsatisfactory progress
being made with the ratification of amendments to the Covenant and to the difficult posi" the Assembly , Cf the Council Stats reminders, prance, Japan and Amendment to Article IT, r.or
fifí 5DORVrr'A3'Y-• 53dRiI	thought the test course might he
for individuals cf appropriate nationality in the Secretariat
P "Í 1 j in -t.	ti on	which mi	gilt
3 tat	0 0	in spite	of r
pain	had	not yet	rati
utu.y	-i-V f* <J Aac.	-i „0 j\ c * J.	.do
to nr ess unofficially fo;
ire
jssaiy ratifications, aisle in g
use, perhaps, of statements which the hog.rl Section might prepare, summarising the earlier steps, Meanwhile a further official reminder might bo sent to non-Council States, six
months having elapsed since the last. Beyond sending reminders he was doubtful how far the Secretariat was strictly entitled to use any pressure in the ».attar0
PROPSS3OB RAPPARD foresaw a tendency for the smaller States to await a lead from the Council powers before troubling themselves about ratifications.
DR„ VAN HAMEL said he had been much impressed during his travels by the distressing effect the Saar averts veie having on public opinion, due, he thought, in the marln to tha ah-vvonti.cn from counter propaganda on the part cf the G-overnm.errl;.-
THE S ECRd1ARY-fIEctrrRp, agreed that a want of sense of proportion was widely prevalent on this question*
Ivh_DENIS observed that in talking with representatives
both of the Saar miners and cf the trench iron-workers be had formed the impression th; i the reports of dissatisfaction in
in the Saar, whether with the terras of the Treaty or with the oris ting situation, were very much exaggerated ~ obviously for political purposes. Ee believed the inhabitants were even sensible of'their privileged position in relation to the rest of Europe, and that the love ran ioi.it ucttu lly enjoyed a considerable measure of confidence in the territory.. This aspect had naturally been rather surprising to hi 1, used as he was to seeing the nuestion from the limited standpoints of P, ris, Berlin and the Council itself. One wa1- perhaps toe inclined to be de pendent, considering the degree of real success • chievod by the present Administration.
unusua.] ly
IT:Q?ESSOh KAPI AX.I) drew attention tc an	■ good article
by the Saar Correspondent of the TTTimes’'.
THE 3KCKET/KY~GKrhKAh agreed that, whereas Gorman propaganda was remarkably efficient, no one in particular was in- vested :	-
to reply in defence of the present regime. It was scarcely the function ox the Governing Commission; II. fault la.ds however, a great opportunity at the present moment to gain credit by reconsidering the Extraordinary Bocroc»
SIE II LECKT AI CIS questioned whethor-even if LI. fault were, as Dr. Tan Hume1 suggested, to use his opportun:tios for making popular speeches - the Saar Dross would give him any publicity.
DEH!
described the satisfaction felt in the Saar Ifhat
the suggestions of the Landerat had secured a modification of the Currency Decree. Tnough policy had required its unanimous condemnation, even so slight ■ recognition of popular sentiment
had been welcomed as an auspicious novelty.
ddod
, a propos
of the false light too ocean only thrown on Saar happenings, that H. FrantzonTa departure had apparently, in point of fact, been a
7
mat gor 0	i” gen	or oil ropxu	;u in	the territory.
THE	SECh	-■ > r;-j r 1 \r Q-W1 n"	IE I.	said that tho
of nours	e, bo	orpectod	thorns	; Ives to carry
League; undoubtedI7 gone* speeches iron M. E.ult night bo uso-ni 1 -
DK - EAI. EE LEI again eraplu administrators, ox politicians much more readily defensible tl required a publicity agent.
II, CcEEET described what response of II. Eault to certain Er O O Í3 • li O strongly favoured so of recognised i partiality.
.sisod the lad:, aueng a body of to vindicate .. system which way .r; it looked; II. Eault really
soomed to him the undiplomatic advances nade by the hmori cun riding to the Saar some observer
TED SECEBEA '-G-elPKAL I. oped that at the n out Corns il Session II. Eault would find an opportunity - at a public meeting - for making the kind if speech required.
9. If, Ik I ."Xi1 mentioned the inconvonienco he sonic.times experienced for want f an It linn LI ember in the ImErmatiun Section: with the one oreeption he had beon able to arrange for tho doctors recently on a visit to the Secretariat each to be shown round by gone one of his own nationality.
PEOFECSQS Lffc-XD remarked that it might incide useful if I.Ionbers of the Secretariat of the various n could be apprised in advance of the e* pec tod visits 0
ntally be ationnlitios f their
cormatriots.
8 -
10.	I!» HAAS said tho Transit Committee hod given its President
rail ^ovfors to arrange for -¿hr. pro rosed Conforonce on wireless Telegraphs’-. In this connection ho personal];,- had Intel;..' "boon on a ■ J ion o hone, Paris ana London; and a reply was now awaited to a latter which had boon addressed to Washington«>
Ee had .-¡Iso boon to Berne £c¥~for the Conference on carriage of norchandise by rail* The invitation ox a representative of the Transit lection to this Conforonce was significant as the erpros-'ion of an v wahening interest in the Le?.- gue on the part of v?hat was b; nature a rather "particularist" "body of superts.
9. PfOPEBoOL IL'.P OLD wondored whether M, SWEETSER TS recent ~	be
or:colient article on the league night not usefully/adapted for
European circuí at ion.
11-, ÜCIILST recalled that a series of pamphlets on League activities was already in course of pr ¡patation - to be available bo f or o the n eo: t Aso or.ib ly.
Dr. o LI TOBE said ho could spare copies - up to two hundred of fan English translation of If. BCULGE01E 1 latest speech on the League. This he had had prepared for supply to Japanese schools, where throe other such documents wore already in general use.
T [ _ Q qt r >r T*

a big work on the 7 cague
that LI. rs three
Bourgeois was alec years of life.
c npleting
Directors1 Mooting 3io.85
"onfidontial »
Genera,
x s_tr lira tod to Under -
ocrotarios-Genoral and	May 23rd, 1923.
Hirutms o? directors1 mbbtihg.
held on V/odnosday, Hay 23rd, 1923 .
Present
Monsieur Avenol Dr. Nitobe Professor Attolico Sir Herbert Ames Monsieur Man tour;
Monsieur Comert Sir Arthur Salter Dame Eachel Crowdy Dr» Van Hamel Monsieur Madariaga
Mrc Walters	(Secretary)
1»	M0ITSI2UR A75PTDD said that Monsieur Bonnot had recently
spent some time in Warsaw on behalf of Dr. Hansen, in order to co-ordinate the work ex the High Commissariat with that of various philanthropic organisations helping the Russian refugees in thet country. A large number of these refugees had fallen under a Government order of expulsion. The question was one which aroused high feeling in Polish public life, and, therefore, most difficult to handle» However, the Polish Government had already granted an extension to Septembe 1st to all refugees possessing viuaa for foreign countries, and would probably adopt an attitude of moderation towards the others, though it could not revoke its decree»
- 2 -
The wort of the High Commissariat and the organisations (mainly Jewish) is to prepare such a plan of evacuation fur the refugees who are allowed a prolongation as will satisfy the Polish Covernmont. As a result of Monsieur Bonnetrs visit, it seemed likely that this could he achieved,
As regards those refugees who wore forced to return to lussia. it was hoped that Dr, Hanson might he able, by direct negotiations in ilosccw, to obtain guarantees for their safety, and, with the financial aid of the philanthropic associations, maize the material arrangements for their passage of the frontier and reception in Soviet territory«
The question was clearly one of great humanitarian interest
0 21
Treat interest also as regards Polish opinion.
b
Jouncil had
0 Oil
i/xir
ed for June 29th
A notice had
boon sent ashing that Sections would inform Mai or Buzz ton of questions they desired to place on the agenda, and ho wished to remind the Directors of this point.
DAI.ID KACEUh JhQV/DY said th&t the Opium Committee was to meet the following day«	Ipe United States Delegation had
arrived. It was understood that they had a definite plan to pi‘opo3o, but it was not yet known what it was c. They seemed to appreciate that the Committee had already done a considerable z^mount of work cn the subject, and wished it understood that, while they had various proposals to maize, they did not wish to break into the regular work of the Committee.
The congress of fomerUs Organisations, held at home, had, she thought, been very successful from the League point of . The Sokol Besolution was the object, at first, of a
view
3
draft motion of censure on the League, but the Conference had ended by oppressing approval of what had boon done by the Assembly and the Council in this matter. They had also ^pressed support of the Opium work of the -^oaguo, taking all theit national bodies to use their influence with the Governments to pass legislation restricting the use of opium arid cocaine to strictly medicinal and scientific purposes, and to support tho work of the League on the subject. Certain general Resolutions wore passed approving the work of the League, and in particular the franch Delegation had proposed, and the Gorman Delegation seconded, a Resolution that tho League should bo as universal as possible. A strong United States Delegation, including the President, had supported tho motion, strongly applying it both to Germany and to the United States. She had spoken to an unofficial meeting, at which from 400-500 delegates were present ana which was called specially to hear about the work of the League.
A proposal had boon made to hex from the United States Delegation that she should visit America in the autumn (having all expenses paid) to speak about the work of the ^eaguo„
UOrSILUR I.1ADARIA0A said Lord Robert Ceoilrs Subcommittee had just met in London, Do general discussion took place on tho C.P.C.rs Report on the Draft Treaty, and he thought tho mooting would have been more offoctivo had this been done. As it was. the Sub-Committee went through
tho Treaty clause by clause, recording a number of individual
end
reserves, and at the/general declarations by the various mombers expressing in most cases reserves on the whole All this was, on the whole, a set-back»
s choseo
J
4
f c
8.
9.
10.
11.
On tho other hand* ho observed a change in the ittitudo of Pr - nee to tho question of a General Treaty, which now seemed to meet with favour in Paris, The Italian member of the Sub-Committee had declared that Italy was absolutely opposed to special Treaties. Ho hoped that at 5ny rate tho general linos of a General Treaty could bo put through at the Assembly„
SIR IU1RB GRT AMES said that Rourimi had paid a largo sum on account of her contributi oris,
In reply to SIR ARTHUR SILTHR , he said it was too early to start talking about modifying tho 15$ reduction proposal,
PROFESSOR ATTOLIQC suggested that, in view of all that was being done for Austria and tho heavy expenses we were incurring on her behr'If, she a arid be requested to pay at least her current contribution,
SIR ARTHUR SALTER said that it seomod pretty certain that 25,000,000 Dollars worth of the Austrian Loan would be t'ken in tho United St tes, an'-' that a Syndic- to hud been formed for tho purpose.
Monsieur Parmentior, French member of the Finance Committee, was now on his way to Greece in connection with the question of the loan, Monsieur Stoppani was accompanying him.
There was no fresh news with regard to the Hungarian situation.
As regards Danzig, he had that day received a letter from the Reparations Commission which he hoped would really advance the matter,
MOFSIEUR M'\rT0UX said he vr s lc-ving tho: evcnin, for Paris, and Erusools, at which latter place« ho would assist Monsieur -Vdatoi in attempting to find a solution of the problem of the Hung’ ri n 1 ndowners in Bourn niu.
5
12.
PROF-SSSOR ATTODICO sa id that M. Co lb an had desired him to advert tc the recent Polish declarations on the subject cf Danzig. hid they nervn that Poland intended to follow a new no1icy with regard to Dana ig.?
DR. Vi IT KA'.IZL thought that they were really directed against the Dengue,
MODSIBUR IVPI70L thought this was not so.
There was undoubtedly b"d feeling between Dnnzigers and Poles, and it shewed itself in this warfare of pin-pricks. He thought that the fact that when the two parties met before the Council Meeting, it had been possible to find an amicable solution of all the questions at issue between them, shewed thrt the Polish policy was not an anti-League one,
LEAGUE OF MATIONS.
Di strib at er3 to	Directors1 Meeting Eo. 86,
Under Secretaries General
and Director s,	Geneva, 1st June, 1923„
MIEUT5S OF DIRECTORS1 MSETIEG. held on Wednesday, May 30th, 1923,
Present :
M. Avenol Drc Nitobe Prof. Attolico Sir Herbert Ames Prof. Rappard M, Mantoux,
M. Ccmert
Dame Rachel Crowdy Mr, Hosting Major Abraham Mr. Van Ittersun.
Mr , Ma nning (Secretary)
1.	I.M AVSDOb observed that apart from the session of
the Opium Committee no important event had occurred during the week. He invited suggestions regarding the draft Council agenda.
2.	SIR HERBERT AI.SS said that should the budget of the Labour Office have been passed in time by the Supervisory Commission it might be placed on the agenda at the last foment.
PROFESSOR AYTo . ICO considered that it ought in any case to bo included,
3.	MAJOR ABRAHAM said that, as a result of an agreement lately reached between the Greek and Bulgarian Governments, the
latter would probably withdraw from the agenda the question of the Bulgarian inhabitants in Western Thrace,
4.	SIR AETHLR SALTHR announced that all was now in good train for the issue of the Austrian Loan. In England it would be open to public subscription about June 11th; in
-2-
Fr&nce a little later; America, while not a guarantor 'State, was expected to take up about 85,000,000 dollars worth -rather more than ono-fifth of the 'Thole loan»
MAHTOTJX gf-we a det: iled account of the negotiations over which Mr«, Ada toi had just been presiding in Brussels in the matter of the Hungarian optants in Transylvania. The parties had indeed, as telegraphed by Mr. Adatci to the Secretary-(Jeneral, declared their satisfaction with the outcome and besides agreeing on a resolution, had assented to the text of the report Mr. Adatci would present to the Council. In view, however, of the attitudes they respectively maintained on the substance of the dispute, ha did not believe the question could even now be regarded as .closed, The Hungarians, though recognising that formally the provisions of the Treaty and of the Agrarian Law might not be incompatible, and that social utility might justify expropriation even on a revolutionary scale, continued to insist that the particular measures applied in Transylvania were aimed solely at despoiling Hungarians, as such, o? their property; were, the legislation uniform throughout Houmania there would be no ground for complaint.
The Roumanians meanwhile continued unwilling to discuss the intention of the legislation in question as distinct from its formal rectitude. Ho class of inhabitants was specifically exempted. If any concrete cases could be shown in which absenteeism had been due to force majeure or the law had been inequitably applied, they were quite prepared to consider these afresh. They would also declare formally that Article 19 of their Constitution would not be invoked to dispossess the optants of the last tenth of their property. But thoy could not regard the
3
Hungarians as placed by the Treaty in a specially privileged position and they equally refused to consider any change in their legislation.
H. AV5NCL considered that despite the great difficulties it was evident that the negotiations had definitely improved the prospects of n peaceable solution of the problem.
PROFESSOR EAPPARL expressed the hope that a good number from the Secretariat would avail themselves of the invitation of the Societe des Arts for that evening; the plans for this year’s vacation course which would then ho dis cussed, gave special prominence to the study of League questions.
LAMS RACH5L CR0~7LY said the Opium Committee was making some progress, under the chairmanship of M, Bourgois and with Prince Charoon as Vice-chairman, Sxcept for special executive questions the meetings were being held in public and had in one or two cases proved rather lively.
A British resolution regarding raw opium had been adopted almost unanimously and two American proposals were under consideration - one for the definition of "legitimate" as meaning "medical and scientific", the other affirming that in principle it was the production of raw opium that must be controlled, The Americans seemed fairly hopeful and on the whole pleased with the conduct of the Committee and the friendly spirit of the discussions, In accordance with r-
resolution of the First Assembly the report session, would be passed on by the Council The session was not expected to lead to any
tut would probably be followed by further a groups of specially interested governments, American resolution would admittedly depend held not to go outside the scope of the Hag
proposal to modify this had been made,
FA ¿'OR AEF.AHAM reported that Ur, Ilunge
of this the summer to th e As re rally,, new c onverti ons, iscussions among Action on the on its being ue Convention, as no
r; the newly
appointed Financial Adviser to the Government of Albania left for that country,
had
LH -Qy.________NAT 103
-,Istribute I to	Directors’ Meeting No„d7,
■ 55c7r-Sec'~5t-?r j es General
in.T“5rrooTorsT- ~	"	Geneva, June 6th, 1923.
laiTUTES OF___DIRECTORS : 7.3TIRG
held on 'Te in sday, June 6th,______1923,
PRU33^T:
Monsieur Avenol* Sir Herbert Amos, Dr. Van Hamel,
’.I, Oolban«
Major Abraham.
II,	Rohein.
S i v Arthur Salter. M. Comert. Professor Rappard. M. Halecki..
Mr. Walters
{Sucre tar’/)
MQHsrSIR AAViVCI: sail that the lest week had been devoted to the work of two important Commissions.
The Opium. Commission seemed now to have reached a satisfactory result. It had acceptet the text of the United States proposals-individual reserves being separately stated by certain of the members adding a resume of the 'ork which the League had done up to now with the same object, and proposing the setting up cf a Committee, including the United States, to study the extension and interpretation of the 1912 Convention. This seemed to him an excellent conclusion, and he understood that the United State.3 Delegation was veil satisfied.
The Disarmament Committee was only now beginning its work on the Guarantee Treaty, and in particular on the question of adding special Treaties to the General Treaty.He thought it unlikely
tha t
2
the Coamisrivn w: uld finish its work n the subject at this no'-vtih-rig^ and the t a further sossi n cf the C,P.C, and of the special Bub-Committoio, presided over by lord Robert Cecil, w;ul^ be necessary, a; ter v.’hich the T. .0. could prepare its final rea rt fc r the Assembly,
I-~ CCh?iI’ explained the Minorities questions which might be dealt with at the at the coming Council Meet
(a)	Bethonia; A statement of the history of this question would bo made to the Council, but ho did not anticipate that the C. unci 1 would toko a definite and final position in the matter at this stage«,
(b)	Latvia: A possible line of solution had been discussed sometime ng: between the latvi-n representative and the Secretary-General,. The former had since returned to Riga, and now lot us knew that the Government agreed to this basis. There would he a meeting between hii, L, Co lb an and M, da Gama, in London, before the Council, when he hoped that a settlement might be vvrked out,
(c)	Lithuania■ This question wap not on the agenda. The Lithuanian Government had, for r asms which ho thought were quite honest, net yet ratified the declaration made in its none. He hoped this would he done by the Parliament ”»hich was now meeting, before the dnte of the Council, If not, we should consider whether the Council ought to try and press the matter
forward„
(u) German Lin rities in Poland: The Polish Government now hold that this question was not within the c npotenee of the Court, and he was afraid that it w&s not inconceivable that that Government v uld refuse to accept and carry out the Court7 s decision. This wc uld bo a very disastrous thing.
-3-
(e)	Minorities Proo^ tore; Monsieur Bonos was trying to secure the agreement of Hour, uni a, Jugo-Slevia and Poland to his proposals on this natter. He did not know whether the question would core to this Connsil or the one after. It was an important one "because in minorities questions the orooeiure and the substance of the matter were indistinguishable and equally important.
(f)	The Journey of Monsieur Ascarato- Ho had boon surprised to find that there was some misunderstanding with regard to 11. Azcarate’s journey in Hutlioniu. The object of this journey was purely constructive, and in no way critical, and it was made with the full assent of the Government• It should be borne in mind that it was not a consequence of the letter from the President ox the Council of April last, but hud been settled previously.
As regards Danzig, the Polish attitude ;us sosiewhat disquieting, but there was no tiling new in it. If no demand on the question came before the Council, the League ought to continue dealing with Danzig questions us technical and not as political ones, .
The seme a noli d to the Saar, though, of course, the latter is unfortunately at present in the middle of the d-xnger point of Europe. . To his mind the Saar question was a question of the p.-rsonnel of the Commission, /hich might perhaps bo stronger and cleverer. To speak frankly, he thought that the proposal for a Commission of Enquiry "/as dangerous in itself and contrary to the Treaty. Having got the best possible Commission, the Council was free to criticise its actions, but not to make independent enquiry into them. ■ The Council could criticise without making enquiry because it:
(a) received periodical reports from', the Commission ; fb) received any petition which an inhabitant of the Saar wished to send to it. Thanks mainly-to the
4
administrative ability cf the President the territory had, till now, been extremely well administered, and all the attacks against the Governing Commission were directed against its policy - not against its administration. They dealt particularly with three points
(1)	The introduction of the francc
(2)	The fact that protection of Saar inhabitants
abroad had been entrusted to the French Representatives,
(3)	The teaching of French in the schuls.
Cf these: (l) he thought had been absolutely forced on the Commission by circumstances: (2) was legal but, he thought, not well-judged:	(3) the
teaching was purely voluntary, and highly beneficial to the inhabitants.
Till now then the Commission had given good results, but now there was a how situation, and it was possible to think that the personnel of the Commission was not altogether suited to deal with it. The real pr .blem of the Saar was whether the composition of the Governing Commission should bo changed.
During his visit to Prague, he had come to fool that the German minority in that country had been well treated, and was now turning towards a policy of cooperation with the Government. He had had some talk on the Hungarian question, and his interlocutors had, generally speaking, felt that Hungary could carry on in spite of the failure of hor efforts at Paris, and that she ahd her neighbours would end by finding a ground for rapprochement. The Russian problem appeared during his conversations in a somewhat now light. He hod felt that the Central Huropoan countries arc afraid of a renewal of the old political aspirations of Russia and thus of the introduction of
a now political factor. These fears mi.silt he exaggerated,, hut the matter w^s worth hearing in mind#	^
PL# YAT HAMEL said that since the last meeting, the Hungarian and Roumanian representatives had both agreed to the Loport and Resolution drafted at the meeting held by Monsieur Adatci.
Ho drew attention to the programme of the mooting <f>f this summer of the Academy of International lav; at The Hague in which the only course on the league of Rations was to he given hy Professor Schttcking, who had never worked with the League and could not, therefore, really know its methods.
There wore many eminent jurists who did so know it, and ho wanted to ¡mow whether his colleagues thought it would ho desirable that he should privately bring this point to the notice of those concerned, and suggest other names.
I .TCITSI HUE CQUELT and PROFESSOR EAFIIEP both urged that this would ho unwise.- Hot merely the choice of Pr. SchTlcking, hut the fact that the League had been, as it seemed, deliberately given a very small place in the programme of the mooting, woro to be connected with the fact that the meeting was paid for by the Carnegie Foundation, whoso Secret: r was far from friendly* It was agreed that the only useful thing to do was to let it be known by Pr. Gchttcking that the Secretariat was at his disposal for any information ho might want to havo in preparing his lectures.
1101' SI HUH EVEN 01 mentioned a somewhat similar case, namely, that the lecture to be given on Austrian reconstruction at the Geneva University Summer Dehool was to be given by a ' strong opponent of the Government end the League schema.
PROFESS OF. K-JxCCKI said that Pr. Popsch, whose attitude was a very different one, would also be hero and perhaps might speak on the subject.
6
PROFESSOR DArlADD thought that Dr. Hartmann would not attack the League, and in any case lectures by the Secretariat would he only too welcome,
9 c	SID ADTHUD SALTED said the Committee on Double
Taxation and Fiscal Evasion was now sitting. The jot was very difficult, but the Committee was very good and progress was being made,
9fl.	The Financial Committee would meet on June 21st,
On its agenda wero the questions of the Greek loon, Danzig, and the Unempl yment Deport..
9h,	The Austrian loan was t. to issued in most countries
on II end ay next. He had arranged that Lloyds Bank here would accept subscriptions for any of the various portions placed in the different capitals,
Tho quosti,n was raised as to whether it was proper for members of the Secretariat to invest in the Loan, and the meeting agreed that it was perfectly proper,
10.	PROFESSOR HALBCDT said that the ground seemed tc have teen well prepared by Ilonsieur lloynan for the Socrotary^Genera 1;" visit to Warsaw. Only in the papers of the extreme Eight had one f. r two articles hostile t.. the League appeared. They concentrated on Danzig, bi t even so wore net really violent. Ho thought the Wit os Government would bo very reasonable as regards miner it ics,
11,	SIF. HE'DBEDT AMES said the financial position was good He had already received 4 millions of arrears for 1922, though he had expected only 3-g millions her tho whole year. If, there, fore, Directors who had made reductions in their expenditure, in accordance with, tho Secretary-General1 s request, found it absolutely necessary to carry out some of the work which they
had sacrificed for this purpose, it was not
-7-
12
13
o
14 i.
15 5
Dhü Doir.ir.itt.;-j on Alloc
that it was ir out de sirrblo to Rv
Assembly te mad > law*
r e m. i gh	t b		met.	
h1 d jc.3	t met		He	
joc tion	ha	d	DO'.n made	
r HO	poi	n Xj	ed out	
the roc	J S3	y *£	y	
hr tide	o	3 )	that the	
sombly	could		by this	
the o ue X	stion		and snsvo	r
corned t	0 3	he	w that the	
and re	0 u c		still further	
f eared	the	possible		
tion he	tome	e n	the votin	g
the I_ 1	. 0,		Though the	
:■ c.xtr av	i\ o*;	at	in the pa	st.
their by	al	-]	l7>í evil o ixl 0	ur
power o
The ir: »ting entirely c-onccrred»
	31?.	AHT7TUH	3A?TEH	sai •	tii	.a t	th	e po	si	tion	of	th	o
la	:gue in	Great	Britain	had	nev	:') J?	be	en s	tr	on go	r tii	an	at
present,		the roe	t:) n "ü C lief	IT 3 O	in	the	C	a bin	et	having		be	on
strongly		in its	favour .	^nh oi? ^		v 01"	Ü j	how	ov	°r,	sign	g	
of	& cone	e-rted a	ttsek by	cer	.a ,, q Ühi.	n o	mpl oye:		}? 3	on	the	I,	I. 0
	PHOT	ES30? ?	i\ •nt) A ~OJ)	said	oh	at	no	pr ogr		ess	v'/as	bo	í -• —c
rn.udo from the official side on the Slavery quo at ion.,
On the other hand, the ronorts on mandated territories ■•vere coming in in a most satisfactory manner.
? l\ J	A BHARAT I said that Bulgaria had requested
that a Commission of Enquiry should ho sent to Thrace. The matter had Been put on the amende, of the next Council,and the Governments inform• d accordingly- 3inco then, Monsieur Hikoif had let us know, unofficially,
-—C>r- —
unofficially, that the nr ttor was in a f\ ir way of settlement by direct negotiation, bit v:o could not remove it from the agenda until the Bulgarian Government had agreed to cur doing sc-.
6c	Ho thought it might interest the Secretariat
to know that lionsiour Ho-loti, vhc was in a position to have uory good information, thought it quite likely that the Feus si an Sovomant would shortly ask for admission to tho league.
34
lise tins Ho „86
Geneva, June 30th, 1923
h .man anaga
¿I.Haas
i«i, 0 at a-; tin i
l.Ir. Bis 1er
1.1. Zrab ba
Hr, Palms r
Lr, Liannin a ( Secret nr.
	Th	r r\ n *. U'V n ~3 ODo ~U-i ± n_v... ?	A. JR I	ashe	d th	e view	C Q	f th	S --	n 0	t in	.T	Oil
the	adv	usability of	aiding	this	y 3 g.	r to t	ne	'oun	oil	I v_l	Re	po	rt
to	the	Assembly some	sort o	f in	trod	notion	fo	r th	e u	en	e f i	t	
of	the	Press am o i	sp errer	s on	the	Le agu	m *	■:.or	•	P	or	th	a use
of	expe	rts nothing c	ould be	mor	e su	itable	th	au t	h.0	;r.3	ne r	& i.	
UJ CD *0	ort,	■which would	shortly	be	go in	o Otlt 1	-	<jn rj	to	av	old	à	el ay
he	prop	osad that the	innova	tion	, i-	any,	she	uld	be	cm	bod	ia	d
in	the	s up p 1 e ma n t ar y	Report	.•hi	oh w	as to	ap o	3 ar	on	•4- ^	3 9	V9	0 '*
the Assembly. A draft introduction by Ur. Sweetser had been circulated, as also a memorandum by Hr.Palmar containing the alternative suggestion that a summary of the too Reports should
te cond,
be annexed to the
__.9 _
Professor Attolico had meanwhile oiiroulated a memorandum proposing that, in future years, the Report should contain a general part summarising b; subjects the entire work of the League up to date. This might bo useful as regards Opium, and certain other questions, but political solutions, once arrived at, should he thought, be allowed to rest.
He invited opinions on the policy attempting to alleviate the dryness of the main report,
PROFEoSOR ATI01I00 then explained more fully his views on the "expose pa r matieres'1, which would, at any rate on some subjects, make a useful set-off to the strictly historical arrangement of the accompanying annual survey. For the sake of perspective and unity of vision, this section should, he thought, receive its final shape from a single hand,
MR. PALMER remarked that even for this part he thought the Sections should do at least the preliminary work.
The SECRETARY GEHERAL said he would like Mr,Palmer to study Professor Attolico1 s proposal as regards the future. Meanwhile, for this year, the choice lay between the Sweetser type of introduction and the suggested concise summary to be annexed to the supplementary Report. The former, he feared, was dangerously selective in manner for an official document.
M, AVELOT- equally deprecated the too subjective colour of Mr.Sweetser1s draft as being open to the imputation of arbitrariness, He suggested that a synoptic table, giving the year's work in outline, by subjects might be of value coming at the beginning, rather than at the end of the chronological report.
The ¿SECRETARY GENERAL however, remained in favour of an annex, and recalled that in any event there would not
be time this year to add anything of the kind to the first r ep or t»
M. CCLBAN emphasised that the Assembly Report
was primarily for the uso of Governments and delegates:
for Press purposes however, it might with advantaga be
amplified by the Information Section, Mr„ Sweetear1 s
draft seemed to him calculated to confirm the erroneous
view, prevalent at any rate in Korway, that the league -
supposedly created to keep the peace - was mainly occupying
itself with secondary questions. All possible prominence
should be given to the political aspects of the v,’ork of the
Council. Ee was opposed to any serious change in tho
traditional form of the official Report, tut at the same time
strongly favoured every assistance being given to the
Information Section in catering for the great gathering of
journalists at the Assembly0
■ SIR ARTHUR SALTER, in the light of his experience
as an onlooker at past Assemblies, distinguished four
objects to be sought:-\
(1)	Tp make the best use of the one day when public
\ attention throughout the world was turned fowards the League.
(2)	To make the usual provision for Press needs.
(3)	To provide something readable for the delegates,
(4)	To add to the interest of the opening day,
Of these objects, the first seamed to him much the most important, It might, perhaps, be best served by printing something on the Sweetser model either as a separate document or as an introduction, and having it submitted to th Assembly by a Rapporteur from the Council, The aim should be to provide a mea ured and interesting conspectus of the year's work, objective, and kept in due proportions by a sing draughtsman - under the guidance of the Secretary-General
-4«"
it, if need be, a Directors' Meeting. Though doubtless faulty
in tone	and	language ,	the S	6 CD	tser	draft w.x3	admirable in
design	and	in balance.	, and	in	i ts	transition	from subject
subject, It might we 11 form the basis cither for an introduction or for a separate document. As an epilogue, however, he feared it would never be read. Placed at the beginning, everyone would road it, and it would deter only the less serious of the delegates from a study of the long Report.
M, MADARIAGA was anxious to keep clear the purpose of the proposed innovation. For official and specialist use, a summary of what was itself a summary of another Report could be of little real value. On the other hand, it was unnecessary further to assist the type of delegate whose participation in debate was meroly casual and hastily prepared. The public demand might, he thought, be best met by furnishing some magnetic personality with material for an important speech on the opening day. At the same time there might be a special edition of the Monthly Summary,
M. ERA BBC agreed as to the danger of any kind cf self-glorification by the Secretariat. Some sort of introduction to the main Report, would however, be appreciated by the Information Section. The practice had been to forward this Report to the editors of important newspapers to enable them to study Assembly questions in advance. To these editors such an introduction would be a great saving of trouble. As an alternative the proposed important speech could be printed and sent out in good time beforehand.
DR. RAJOHMAHli sup-e- noted the ever-growing number of reports on the technical organisations: no doubt the tendency was unavoidable He supported Sir Arthur Salter's plan. A speech might easily be dis tributed , ready. ....
—D‘-
for insertion in	the press	as so or-	as delivered.	The
sp e alee r shou Id , 1	10 thought,	, bG the	President of the	Council,
personality being Ices important than the actual subject-matter ox the speech.,
M. HAA3 thought tho Council would not wish to appear to be defending itself before the A rSbUbly „ Ho, therefore, suggested that the proposed speech should rather come from the
President proviso-ire of the Assembly itself, At tho same time, might not the special number of the Monthly Summary, now published at the hew Year, be brought out just in time for the Assembly instead?
SIR ARTHUR -3A1TAR feared that this might tend to lessen the importance of the President's Goocoh.	Incidentally
he proposed that tho task of giving a literary finish to this special number should be entrusted to M.Madariaga.
K, AVAHOL remarked that there wore now before the
meeting several proposals which, though different, were not inconsistent, as thoy were directed to a number of distinct objects. There might well be a President* s speech, a spec la number of the Journal, and in addition, an analytical index to the Report,
After soma discussion, it was agreed that M.Oomert, or some other fully-informed French member of the Secretariat, should prepare a speech in French, about 25 minutes in length, in which special emphasis should bo laid upon the political work of the League; that this speech should oe printed and translated in advance; and that the Secretary-General should try to get Viscount Ishii to agree to deliver it. Meanwhile for the .journalists, Mr,Palmer sho .la edit an objective
and fairly full document i which, editors should receive in advance under cover of letters if possible from actual acquaintances in the Information Section, drawing their attention to the passages of special looa 1 interest,
PROFESSOR ATTOLICO particularly remarked that the subjective touches in this document should be left to be added by the journalists themselves to any passages of which they chose to make use, The Presidents speech, on the other hand, instead of covering all the ground, would deal only with certain points of special interest, and unlike the Monthly ¿Summary ~ it would not be distributed broadcast, and would, therefore, have a higher news -value for the journalists at the Assembly, At the same time, he favoured making even the Report to the delegates as readable as possible.
The SECRETARY GENERAL, however, dissented.
The delegates, with the help of an analytical index, should be content with the regular official Report; which was not too long for the use of Governments before the Assembly, though obviously far too long for tho convenience of journalists, For the special Monthly Summary ws ought to keep to January, when it could treat of the Assembly itself from a comfortable distance:	besides, the public ware now coming to look for it
at that time.
DR, VAN HAMEL hasing himself on the attitude of the Dutch Press, advocated, at any rate for the smaller countries, a muoh shorter summary than that proposed by Professor Attolico. This the Dutch papers might be expected to print in full, instead of merely making extracts.
The SECRETARY GENERAL however, kept to his view that room should be found in cthe Press Summa ry for ovary
~7~
V
V
side of the League’s rork.
It was thus decided, for this year at any rate , to prepare a President1 s speech, a Pro,-. Summary of some ¿5 pages, and an. analytical index as a aide to the delegates' Report.
The SECRETARY GlIIiSR&L detailed briefly some encouraging impressions of his tour in Central Europe. In Poland even the supposedly reactionary members of the Government had evinced what seemed quite genuinely pacific intentions.
Despite a natural enough Shortage of administrative talent, the country was making unmistakeable progress. As regards Danzig - the burning quest>on of the moment - the Government had now formally set forth its views for circulation to the Council.	Kean while, in Danzig itself, the me re arrival of
the Secretariat party from ,ar effect on the general anxiety, policy was better understood t'. increasingly appreciated as Franco“British difficulties tended to multiply. His remarks made there to a deputation of German journalists- had had a considerable and, ho hoped, useful effect. meanwhile, ho could not applaud too warmly the lecture delivered by il.kantouo:, in the p esanoe of M. Banes and the corps diplomatique, to a gathering of students.
In London he had formed the opinion that the new British Government - and in particular the Premier - would support the League, if possible even more strongly than had the Sonar Law Cabinet. The public dissatisfaction dating from the time •Pf the Saar debate was now much less noticeable.
The coming Council ideeting, should he thought, be over within the week; apart from Danzig and the Saar, there wore
Li\7 ll cld ii Q-Cl	a visibly sooth
At Prague	, l.i League’s
an anywhere	els3, and was
no very serious problems
US
-8-
b.
6.
7.
M. MANTO'JX, referring to recent French attacks on the League, ascribed the in partly to a superior scepticism and partly to sheer ignorance.
The SUCRE TAR Y Sill 1, considered them also in some degree due to the tendency of France's critics abroad to point a contrast between French policy and League principios.
MR. BIJLER said that according to M.Koblomairo, it could all be put down to disillusionment over the Peace l’re aty and o ve rything relat ed the re to,
M. COLEAN said the criticism in Norway was, on the other hand, founded on a desire to see the League strengthens Tho groat Powers should understand that the Scandinavian countries were growing restless over the League's want of authority. He specially urged the need for strict impartiality in the Secretariat. France was, indeed, a part of the League, and there could be no question of a superstate imposing upon France an essentially non-French policy.
The Governments of Latvia and dsthonia seemed to
be anxious to keep the roar open for a settlement of their
minorities questions .just in time for the Assembly.
He concluded with a plea for stricter observance
within the Secretariat of the formalities prescribed for the ian
circulat .¡/of files,
SIR ARTHUR SALT ¡JR said that, in order to meet possible criticisms of the rather generous rato at which the Austrian, loan had bec.n issued, it might be useful for the Secretariat tc know the explanation.
The rate had been fixed by the Austrian Government, and if their estimate of public belief in the League had proved too 1 ow, wo naad feel no regret.	The short-
term loan, issued on substantially the same terms,
-9
bad indeed, been much less eagerly taken up, Ac an additional factor, there were practical objections to issuing an in tarnations' loan at a variety of rates, It was thus necessary to adopt
for	all	tfc 0	countries concerned	the highest
in	any	- in	this 3 nSt el'iC 3 , the t	ruling on the
MR. BIL1SR gave a brief account of the previous uay!s neeting of the Supervisory Comini 3 sion in Paris.
t, having airs ady been so thoroughly
Ofi	;i 33	budget, hav
the	Gov	erning Body,
di scussion.
M. 1JQBL.GMAIRB - present for the first time since the Assembly -commenting on the work of the Commission at its Spring meeting, was inclined to suggest that larger economies might have been effected, and appeared indeed to be surf.ring under a misapprehension on one or two points, such as bee application by the Secretariat of the decisions of the And Assembly on administrative matters. His chief objections affected (1/ the Library, as not having been sufficiently reduced, (2) the Transit Section as being of little practical value, (3) the Health Organisation, which was in his view a source of jealousy and overlapping and. ought therefore to be suppressed.
Reminded of the working agreement recently arrived at between the Health Organisation and the Paris Bureau, he hod replied that the practical effect of this compromise was that every task
fell to	the shai oof	the Le ague.
fended ‘	the Commission	7 e work; as
bsorved	tiiat cuts in	the salaries
British civil servants could be legitimately imitated only if Geneva prices could be shewn to have fallen in proportion,
M.Koblemaire had, moreover, hinted that - as the British
/
r
-10 •
repress
fig'-r'
ntative had
effet
CD h> O O	r	ing Body a	’ J ' ct.A	inrun
not	to	vote for	any t	brag
• lea	hi.	ng power m	lght	similarly
ite s	to	the As sen	bly,	
a sp	0 0	oh in whic	h he	had
; und	or	which the	Sec	retard at
arid' the Labour Office equally suffered owing to the constant call for re-organisation as well as to the peculiar implications of an international staff, lie had also used some strong expressions regarding the duties of the members of the Supervisory Commission and of the Governments which had approved arrangements now bitterly critized.
The SECRETARY GLN3RAL said he understood that the French representative on the Council would pro Daly ask for the budget
to be referred b ac k to th a Sup e r vi so i y C o mini selon.
this v;oui
require on ■unanimous vote it would almost certainly not ba done., Questions of policy ware outside the Commission1s competence, and ur. questions of detail - in presence of the Commission1 s declared conviction that no further reduction was practicable -« such a reference won d amount to nothing less than a vote of censure on the Commission,
PHOT'S S SOIî ATTOIICO said he had recently been considering the possible usefulness 01 drawing up a report on Secretariat economies, which ha thought é'ow.ld be done with tolling effect. There could bo a complete story recalling in detail the Directors discussions, the Secretary-Goneral1s circular, the first series of cuts, the further series of cuts - and in conclusion the tenus of all our various rules ana regulations on the point.
It would indeed appear that we hrd shouldered great responsiblli in actually moderating the scope cf resolutions voted by the Assembly, and while stopping short of out-and-out breordres of faith, we had of our own free will resorted to many measures not even thought of by our critics. He invited Directors to send bim their suggestions for this report.
-II-
Mr. II JLDR remarked that j while the Gomelscion had applauded the various dovioes adopted by the labour Office for reducing staff, they had unanimously insisted that the sanctity of contracts must at ail costs be respected.
M. HAAS said that wl.iioblemairc' s views on the work of the Transit Section caused him little alarm: thoy were superficial and rather subject to change, and had never carried very much
we ight.
The “SECRETARY GDWERAL agreed that the budget of the Transit Section would probably he allowed to stand.
Dr. RAJCHkAB said that, as regards the Health Organisation the Mixed Sub-Committee at’ its recent meeting in Paris had evolved a satisfactory compromise. A member who represented the French Foreign Office appeared to have given assurances -for whatever they might be worth - that the French Delegation at the Assembly would leave the Health Organisation alone. Replying to the Secretary-General, he explained, that while the interpretation of the new agreement would be the task of the Council, it would first of all have to go to the Assembly for
approval.
The oH CRD I ARY GLUE HAL referring to the pessimistic views which wero being voiced in various quarters, remarked that this mood was familiar in the months preceding the Assembly -though somewhat unwarranted at a time when, with few important exceptions, the League was grappling with practically every political difficulty in Europe.
/
i
j i	> ' S3
i
LEAGUE OP moi;s
■istributed to
n.aer Secretaries Genera 1
no Directors.
Directors'Meeting, I>!°89.
Koneva, July
13th.19 23
MIbUfES OP DIRECTORST_MEE1 LhO held on Wednesday, July 11th. 1923.
PRESSED	Secretary General.
U. Avenol.
Professor Attclico.
Dr. Eitote. hr. van Honel. Professor Rappard.
Dr * Raj oilman.
Dame Rachel Crowdy.
M. C ome rt»
Mr. Abraham.
Mr. Bieler.
Mr. Manning (Secretary)
L.
Dhe SECRETARY GEEERAL said it was evidently agreed that
the Council Meeting had turned out better than anyone had dared to
hope, i'he most remarkable feature was the ecpual satisfaction of British
French J German and Sarrois newspapers with the Resolution regarding the Saar .
as to the recent crop of rumours of Germany's impending application (backed by London) for admission to the League, this was probably nothing but a revival of earlier reports; he thought he should have heard if there had been any better foundation. For the present everything hung on the possibility of a Reparations settlement - as to which he had not yet become pessimistic.
He expected to return from pis holiday about the 12th. or 15th. August. It would then be time to consider final arrangements for the Assembly. In view of technical
2
objections taken last week it would be important to make sure that all documents should go out at least fifteen dags before the next Council meeting - which was fixed for the 30th.August.
4,	.Professor ATIOLICQ invited special attention to
Confidential Circular 6 (c) regarding the survey of the league's work which it had been decided should be prepared for supply to the newspapers before the Assembly; Sections were asked to send their respective contributions to Mr. .Palmer in good time for him to edit the composite document. It should be possible to include a treatment of the work of the recent Council Meeting.
5.
said the
In reply to .Professor Rappard the SECEB'i1 PRY 'CBI'ER .h Supplementary Report to the Assembly would take matters
up to the latest possible date, though it could scarcely cover the August work of the Council which, after considering the report of the Mandates Commission, the result of the Conference on Obscene Publications and other such outstanding matters, would presumably transmit them direct to the Assembly. Instead of having another supplementary report on these eleventh-hour Questions, the lelegates could be given copies of the relevant Council Minutes. He agreed with Professor Rappard that, in view of the susceptibilities of Mandatory Powers, the Mandates Report could net be brought to the knowledge of the Assembly otherwise than
through the Council.
Mr. BIETVPE asked Whether it was expected that the nexk Assembly would deal with the question of judges'pensions, which the Council had thought of considering further at a later session. If sc, it would have to cone before the Supervisory Commission at its next meeting.
The SECRET.P Y-CEEERnX repli Supervisory Commission insist on the
ad that, should the necessity for further time
9
3
tie Council could Quito properly cor j"vobiion oij.j. opinion "to t;i_o iis s omD ly»
Mr, BIBLER roj ortod a B>..nk balmco of 4.000.C0C francs: sore substantial repayment to the '.working capital fund might, moreover, be expected from the labour Officea
Tiio CECEBTPEY- GEIT3I1AL foresaw that the hssembly 'Could bo unlikely to vote so high a figure for working capital as the Supervisory Commission had hitherto contemplated proposing.
Professor iLUPhhD appealed to such of his colleagues as should be present in Geneva ¿it the time to she,re, so fur as their nationals were concerned, the turd ,-u of throe weeks' hospitality to the Mandates Commission.
hr, lillQBE intin, ted thi.it the Intellectual Co-operation oub-Committoos would moot on July 23rd. and the Plenary Committee a few days later. Professor Gilbert Murray . s anxious to send a substitute in the person of Mr. Lowes Dickinson - both as having a. great influence among intellectuals and as not yet having become a convinced, supporter of the League.
The 3ECRLl'.t,EY- Mlalk....h observed that, except in the ca.se of the Supervisory Commission, nominations of substitutes had, as a rule, boon accepted.
Mr. LIE Lap reran mod that the ¿supervisory Commission had recently decided to ask the .assembly for authority to appoint its own substitutes. Ho way uouing a footnote to the Report recalling the earlier discussions on this point.
.¿.no gpjClk/mi-Hi. J-EI Em.-Oz insrsued tha. i. oho . .esembly must be clearly apprised, not only of this latest recoiamcndation., but also of the earlier proposal of the Commission -which, having been considered by the Council, it ws now; beyond the power of the Commission to withdraw;,
])rt DITOBE said he hoped that on July 28th. oneu sixty to eighty delegates to the Congress of the Brussels Association for Child Welfare would be visiting the Secretariat, some speaker of fluent French would be ready to help him show them roundo M„ Comert agreed to make the necessary arrangements.
Mo COMEPT referred to a recent article by Professor Einstein remarkable for its tempo,rate tone vis-6-vis the league«, LTc EAJCIhh'.b suggested that a single member of the Distribution Service should be made responsible for tho timely despatch of all Council documents.
M, A YEP Oh remarked that the unfortunate situation which, had ocoured lest week had been duo to an improper accession to requests to despatch documents direct to the private address ox a Council representative instead cf through the channels official prescribed,
ri'ha CEORIfxABY GEliERAL. replying to Professor Sappo rd , agreed that the report of the Mandates Commission must go to the Council the moment it was available, He thought it would be well for tho President cf the Commission personally to attend the Council Session, when he would doubtless learn whether his presence was advisable at the Assembly.
33

iiliiiiG oil OJ
T pr'il Q
Diroctors* ;oat inf ifo. 90
Dishributoa to	Gonera, Jr.l; -:4th, 1923.
UnderjJaoretarias Ienorc.l r.n d Pi root ore.
I:IUTUlu 3 OP DIRK¡1 OHO' i _ffi Ii:G
1.
aide	7 , dul.y
x * •	Avenol.
Professor a'	
Dr.	Hitobc .
1 i •	Colban.
Pro	fossor H:
Uajor Abrah:	
. _r.	dvjoe t so!
i..r.	?j ie 1c r,
i _ •	Hone in.
nr.	Cunning:
Ur.	Hanning
. th	at last ,
,e ag	ue Con ii
b a r
I!. AViiilOl recalled that last year the numerous technical
the Comic il to send representatives to the Assembly. Jot this .y a a r t h a Cor n ci 1 ha d n ot so £ ar co n sio a re a ti.o point. It had boor, sup posted that the Directors concerned night proceed to vuirn the -various Connies ions oi the possibility oi an invitation being sent shortly beiore the Assembly ; the pros-.ident oi the Council could be ini or no <3 and the sanction of the Council itself for the invitations could he sought at its Auguat session.
it. CCLBAD remarked that the Danzig High Coin. ission^r uould in any case be present for the Council ranting and.
Slight at least be ashed, in a personal letter, to stay over to make the accuciiatance of so no of the Assembly delegates.
Ii. AIT:liQh considered that, in vior of the Council’s
special responsibilities as re pares bxstria, the prose nco in arid it ion to tho regular dole-gat ion - ox' th. Commission General, and theroxoro a or politic-: 1 reasons oi.' Mgr. Seine as noil, would bo desirable. In general, however, it woul
not	u o un	ro ;x£	viable or	un	xU	ir	t 0	d i; j		:.i .	at	e, i
inv	i ratio	ns,	accord iug	to	n	0 0	0 s s	itrf	or	c o n	v’	f.. 1J .(iCO
	n x •	011a.	,11 agreed t	■ha	t	vh	ole	sale	-J i.	v it	r- ■*-	ions v-
OXt'	rav ag?	nee :	Ji rectoi	•s	v; o	ul	cl 1,	nor	h on	to	t	a’;e in
not	only	the	expense tv	J b	af	so	t	j v /•	• i:	nr	if;	Lr •_/ J. u/ U
son:	el sua	c o pt	il: ilities	of	t	ho	0 omnis		io	hi o •		
Profossor A1 I01 ICO equally doubted whether all ti:o e: ponses incurred in the oast under this head could be prov to have bo en necessary. Tills year, hov.ovor, there sooted be special occasion for the technical organisations - in own interests - to bo represented before the 'ourth CoDiujP On the other band, iron a rider point of view, their help: r.iipfct not be indi-snorsable . I.
Score	ta	riat -
	- •	_C0jfL,
act iv	it	ios - ■
would	i	Ii ] - ~£ -J. c
T h ir.	might -pri	
d that certain	! 0	j. \j j jJ c 0	chn	i col	Con
aso Lo present	i	n Co nova	, in	Sept	eub-
iiv if a ion was	1 n	ecectary	•	In go	1.0 x':
bettor that the		herVnce	of	c ac I:	
should, so ia	X	s ; cssi	blO	, be	S’uS
tions in ■ dost	io	n, rathe	__ J- £ v	hen l	a </ 1
s imul t ano ou s	re	spona ib1	lit	$ to	t l:o«
I. OOliB.tx! pc into d out that, even sc, the political activities - the special province ox t be Council itself -would in practice iv.il to be jus ifiod bp the Secretariat This might prove a heavy re s;; on s ib il it y : last 7iar the i1 for the journeys of the Minorities Oecticn had boon cut
down iron Dcs. 45,000 to Pcs. 35,000 notwithstanding that travelling was clearly an essential -part of the 3octi.cn1 s duties. It would not., however, to proper for the Aceretary General to conpoto in forcefulness of pro sent ?.t ion v it h the deputies of the technical organisations.
I.	I, xf7Dl!0L dissented: the Budget v;as the budget ox the Secretary General, not of the Council. I'ho division of labour vsith the technical organisations, leaving the Secretary General free to concentrate on the political items, voulu not merely bo a lightening of his tasb, but in a sense an actual protection.
II.	C0LBiJ3_ conceded that it was largely a guest ion of c i r e urns t an cos.
Pro f o as or	IC LIC 0 ronarhod that, while vve v.ero not
obliged to tahe any official action, it might be that the Secretary General would prefer to have the various Presidents on the spot. It did not follow, however, that the President would in each case be the individual selected by a Comission ns its advocate. In agreeing that Directors should write informally to apprise the Commissions of the procedure contemplated , he thought it important to naho clear in chat cireunstaliens these provisional and unofficial inv it at i Oxis T e re be ing s e nt.
II. COLB Ah strongly favoured m;. flag the onpeuso in each case a charge upon the budget of the articular organisation rather than on the general budget of the Assembly.
_.AVBnOL thought the possibility might be suggested
to the various Commissions of selecting as deputy some member who was at the same tine one of a national delegation
-4-
and thereby achieving an oconony.
Ur. LOVCPAY pointed out that such members vjcro not always the most influential.
Lb AVANOL was propo.rod to leave that aspect to
the judgment o± the Commission itself.
Professor ATTOLICO thought the invitations should allude specially to the ivorh of the Fourth G omit too -though in a loss degree representation before, the Second Goamittoo could also Lo of advantage.
13. BIDLER recalled a vague rooormneneation moved by II. hnhlo for closer liaison between the Second and fourth Committees. By an amendment- adopted last year in the Assembly Rules of frocodure, the fourth Committee now had a veto on any new schemes involving expenditure
which might bo brought forward
toe As sen
Professor ATTOLICO remarloed that this arrangonont gave special point to the demand for liaison between the
two Committees.
I fa .i or	ABRiJLA.'i	observed that no	one could	be sure
in advance	that the-	Sixth Co mmi11ce	would not	bring for-
ward some :	now propo	sal - as in the c	aso of the	lion son work
last year	- even at	the very close c	± "t ho As s o	mb 1 K>
If. CQLBAltfaade some observations on the Lausanne treaty.
The minorities stipulations v:cro word for with those of the earlier treaties. Bothi of the idea at one time put forward for a Commission of the. Lom-uo of nations to be
word in conformity ng had come permanent
established in furl
Inter-i igrat	ion Commission	was	to	comprise -	bos
four Turks -	three nominees	of	-L1_ , uiit/1	C ounci1.	Tili
would in pra	etice be restri	o r» ut/U	-A- . to	the nationals	
It would not, however, be Improper for the Assembly Rapporteur to mention the difficulties and, with, the reference to the resolution of the Third Assembly, to; introduce a prudently word''i invitation to the Secretariat to apply its method of "benevolent and informal communications" with the Angora Government - which was already cognisant of the resolution7s terms, through the furnish delegates who had visited Geneva. lie did not doubt the possibility of developing a favourable atmosphere on this basis: meanwhile, the Oreco-Turkish-
field of choice
land and the Scandinavian and South American countries. While not expressly concerned with Hinorities questions, three first-rate men so appointed might exert all the good moral influence of a permanent Commission ad hoc. So long as nothing was done to irritate the Turks, he anticipated, that they would themselves in due course come put
the erpense of a league office in tlieir capital.
Professor ATT01IC0 remarked that on Turkey1s applying for admission there ought to be no suggestion of imposing conditions.
In the case of the Baltic States there had been no treaty; in that of Hungary the League had simply taken note of her Gristing obligations.
major ABRAEAII said what had, in fact, happened, had been that the Baltic States mo.de a voluntary declaration, whereas Hungary wrote a letter, affirming her good intentions, to the Sub-Committee of the Sixth Committee. more than one delegate had particularly insisted for tue simple application of Article I of the Covenant»
+ +heir cmf: ierne in the league, and perhaps even volunteer to be
- Q-
T_. C011AU saw no special reason lor the Isse.libly to consider this aspect at all; these- questions would si ..ply ho noticed as already regulated.
Proiessor ATAnlOO, agreeing, distinguished between this colourless attitude and any enplicit endorsement of the existing situation, which latter would seem to him unwise.
3.	Professor ATTOilCO reported that the T.M.C. sub-committee in London, which would finish that evening, had adopted - though with important teservations - a single tort aimed to reconcile the Cecil
and Requin positions. Jleanwhile, Lord Robert had ashed for a postponement of the T.T.C. Paris meeting from the 31st to August the 3rd.
4.	hr. 3ITHR described the financial outlook as continuing very good. On Sir Herbert Ames's return, the possible representation df the Supervisory Commission at the Assembly would need to be considered. He begged to remind Directors of Professor Attolico's circular inviting contributions to the proposed report on Secretariat economies: hitherto only one reply had come in.
5.	HOi.lHIl referred to the visit of Colonel lance, a British railway eirpert, to Eastern Europe. it would take about si:: weeks,
and was to result in a report to the Transit Commission.
me
various capitals had readily agreed to give every assistance to his work. This was the realisation of an idea originally put forward at the Genoa Conference and subsequently approved by the Council and the assembly.
7-
0.	Hr. LOYAJAY observed that the league .'smor^idrii on Quito in
had now appeareci.
7.	The small Commit toe of experts on hills of h; change had met last week and the President was drawing up a report. On the Council's having asked their view regarding the typo of e. pert to be invited to a larger meeting later on, they were questioning the utility of any such further invitations.
8.	In conversation with . Calonder he had gathered that the
well.
Silesia 'are	a try were	worming row.	w’a.bly *
whether the	time rad	not adrived	for
assembly on	the very	interesting	card
le advertise	i , a ora: :	ccowplished	under
league auspices in that region.
Professor ATTOhlCQ agreed:	. Calonder should be among
the first of the League Commissioners to be invited to the Assembly.
MrToMR also thought the proposed re -ort would be most useful.
10.	Dr„ hITOBM observed that the Intellectual Co-operation
Committee would be meeting on the h, tli. .adame Curie had written, from a nursing homo, hoping to attend as soon as her health permitted.
36
IE AGUE CL? ITA'flOHS .
.tributad to Under n ero to r i o c -■'J-on o ra1
■nd Director!
Directors Hooting lTo.91. Son or a,
Lugo.fit 4 th , 192 3 .
I-II1TLT3ES 0:? DII.EiTOLS 1 HEHIIUG
hold on Wednesday, August lfit, 19 23,
*v n F5 nr
I ion p, i cur Aveno 1.
Pro fe bo or Attclico. Sir Herbert Anos.
Hr. - IcHinnori Mo od. Dr. Hudson .
Hr. 3’./cotper .
Dmc Ts oho 1 Cr o\;d y. : Ioneiour Hadar luga. I Ion s i cur H aas .
Dr. IT o m an Y/h i t o. Dr. Lothian.
Dr. Stoncoh.
I la jor A or ah an.
Hr. Gilchrist.
Hr. ’./alters) Hr. Hanning)"
Secretaries.
1.
2.
draft agenda for the next noeting of the Council rn
. sou seo a or; 1 ap nr or o d, v: i tl. cor
re r.
1AJCXR ISL/JLHI read a to logran fr
.: l UlU
me alteraticr.fi
ALys sin inn Gov ermacn t
applying for adnission to the League.
H OFTSSGL. ... T'JO LI CO doubting v/hether application by tologran v/ore in order, suggested that the necessity of a more formal application should bo pointed out in reply. Hie application should, he thought, he notified innodiatoly to Hcribors of tie League, after which it night be given full publicity through the
Her3IHUI- IIADAT.IAGA referring to the request regularly sent to applicants for Honborslip for details required by the P.A.C. ii
regard to Military, Naval a,id Air strength, wondered whether this should "be done by telegraph „
It was agreed that c written request would allow of the documents being brought by the Abyssinian Delegation.» It was decided to telegraph requesting confiimation of the application, and at the same time to write fully on the subject of the other necessary formalities»
HR t I1GKIHTT0IT ViOCD. said that was the closing day for nominations to the vacancy on the Court» Twenty-eight names hat: boon submitted by ¿53 Governments, including one from the United States» The most important omission at present was franco» Late nominations would probably bo accepted by the Assembly» The convenient, but expensive, course followed on the previous occasion had be n to telegraph to all Houbors lists both of tho punctual nominations and of those received late; the Secretary-General was, however, only obliged to provide lists for the Assembly and the Council»
IlONSIAUR ILAPAKIAGA remarked that the Press would probably be glad to do the telegraphing»
PROFESS OR ATTOU 00 added that for the case of the Dominions, it would suffice to inform tho High Commissioners.
MR. SYjIGGToIGR, anticipating pressure from the journalists, asked far authority to disclose the identity of the candidates nominated by particular Governments» Tills would, of course, give the public a clue to the probable result of the iltimato election, but the Protocol did not appear to prohibit such a course »
•T; > IIGHIIHOIT ’GOOD explained that the Assembly would presumably learn the names in alphabetical order, each with its nationality and list of nominating groups.
5
said thc procodur e	a t th c	; Ass nimbly	might a
;ary-Gon era 1. I lean	'.'hi lo,	he shared	iin ob -
'rofessor Attolico	t o th o	irmedia to	publica
ils , especially in	what v.	; a s admit tc	■dly a
provisional list. Everything but the bare lint of candidates should for the present rone.in secret, lost there should bo an appearance of influencing later non in? ti .>n.
IIOITSICUH HAAS agreed that the contest should, as far as possible, remain personal rather than politi :al. Ho over, thought that to give out the act!on of the various national groups would bo contrary to the Statute.
HOHSIEUE HAAS referred tc the Italian proposal that tie Transit C omit too should be ashed to consider the convocation of a Conference on H a dio-Holographic questions. A Commit too of three experts -Britioh, Trench and Italian - had net in London in July to cons idor points of procedure. In the view of the Committee, the projected Conference should deal with both telegraphic and radio-telegraphic questions, and should, if practicable, bo hold in the first half of 1924; without American participation, however, it would bo of little
lent having already, so no tine bach, proposal on this subject, it was decided reply. Ho, personally, was wo11 satis-
va	lu		HI:	G 7	rench	Gove
CIiU.	1 K X	os sod	Vh:	shi	ngton	wi th
to	o	How	fur	■ the	r time	for
fi	od	"A th	th	:0 S	ituati	on.
in	Octobc		r.			
HOnSTEUh H.IAS went on to mention the excellent reception and generous assistance Colonel I lance saonod to be finding at tin. hands of the various Eastern European Governments• The resultant report, though drawing only on official sources, should nevertheless bo of the greatest interest. The letter sent to the Soviet Government had not been ucAnowloclgoa*
6
DI,« ITuI.ILJi IF I IS described the one ourarinw results of his
enquiries in the Hast into the incidence of various diseases, the part played by shipping: in their spread, and the prospects for international efforts against then. It was his preliminary impress ion that a Quarantine Convention could be rather easily negotiated. lie would prefer to see a complete re-draft of the existing Convention of Paris on this sub ject-r other than its ncre revision, at present proposed. lie mentioned the pressing need for a Bureau in the Par Hast for the centralisation of
epidemiological intelligence.
Incidentally, he had been greatly impressed by the interest shown in the league by all political parties in Japan.
32
;-u.: of uatior:
directorsr ¡.looting No. 92. Geneva,
August 20th, 1523c
iniUTEo OF MRECTORo* UEJTDIG
held o?: Thursday, August 16th, 1923,
Present:-
The Secretary-General, oir Herbert Amos,
H. Ilantoux,
Professor Rappard,
Hr o Col Don,
air Arthur Salter,
.a no Rachel Crowdy,
A. Comort, iii . HeXt IS ,
1 r o McZi nn on Rood, hr. Norman Thito, hi. Denis,
LI. Halockij II. 'villario
Hr. Hanning, Secretory.
1.	The SRCRETxIRY-GAIlARAh laid stress on the importance, in the present period of international tension - and particularly during the coming Council and Assembly sessions - of the greatest caution on the part of all members of the Secretariat to avoid expressing any such views on controversial subjects as might lend themselves to misconstruction or the suspicion of interest-ednoss. He was at the- same time hopeful that on all but one
or two inroortant questions the loading Council Powers would continue to work in harmony.
2.	Ho asked Dirootors to consider in time for discussion at the next mooting the sectional arrangements for the Assembly. Apropos of the presidency of the- several committees, it was agreed that statements should bu prepared for purposes of comparison, showing the possiblo candidates,
together with the
countries represented in these oositio.aa in the st. It r.i,jL* rhnos be- token for grunted that the usual division of subject:
i .' o'i 31 d t.. ad O': 31 o d.	h 3 ; vos i\ ah i n g
p-rh-.r	OS	bo t	eke a for	gia
W. + v-r,-. Kl - 0 •	on	thi	six OC; L.i	t c:
1:1 • -UO	ni;	D tO	c o-ondina	to
is among tn : various candidates for the pro side no 7 ho thought it prorap.turo ns yet to formul to any Cocroti ri t tL es-, Replying to I Tin. Colton, he adcad thut of the Counoil States Eranco end Sonin had still to rot if 7 the amendment to ¿rtiolo 4e .'Tot tne-t non-ratification would in his view avail to keep tho present Council intact. Tho throe origin. ! non-porim nent members would probably all have to go» If, os Ur. Colb an anticipated, some
national dole	gations should seek	guidanc	j'J *~> i~4 >■ V t. . O	to tho ox	iorcise of
their votes,	Central European roe	.re sunt a	tiun	might, he	thought3
be generally	mentioned - without	special	ref'	jronco to	the Lit ul
.Entente•„
Even ratification would not affect Chinars clain to sit fei o further year, though the assembly might always exorcise its undoubted right to replace her.
U. IllITTOUX in answer to a. question from 1-Tr. Eappard, said the seat would not necessarily be reserved for an ¿static, the isserably not having committed itself on this subject to more thru
a r r
’’wish
Prof e ssor R ' IP. ED gave it as his impression that th< hues Government fc d little ambition to suonly a president. M. Mott- _ the only conceivable candidate - oould ill be spared from the spokesmanship of tho delegation.
3.	Sir Lrtirur shLTCE alluding to Lord Robert Cecil rs proposal for a stricter fixing of Council dates, wondered whether the Secretariat interest in this question might not bo pressed. These dates formed tho skeleton for the programmo of all League mo.'ting: throughout the year, and their present uncertainty was a source of inconvenience, confusion and - as sir Herbert Enos agreed - of extra expense.	Could not definite dates.
f our
- 3 -
. i ,
Mondays, for instance, be fixed and adhered to. The valve of this to the technical organisations alone world he immense. After some discussion, it was settled that Sir Arthur Salter, in consultation with Sir Herbert Ames, should prepare a Secretariat memorandum on this matter for the information of the Council.
4.	Sir Herbert AMIS said an improved proportion of punctual payments had given us, for the time being, a false appearance of prosperity. Aside from mere solvency, we already had three millions out at interest. The Swiss contribution, which Professor Rappard understood to be available for immediate payment, would, however, be none the less welcome.
5.	Professor MANT0I3X said there was some prospect of a reference of the Jaworzina question to the Council, probably with the hint that its further reference to the Court would be acceptable. The point at issue was whether a certain decision of the Conference of Ambassadors must be considered to have finally determined a particular section of the Ozecho-Polish frontier. He had indirectly; obtained a copy of a Poincaré letter of July 28th to the Polish Minister in Paris, enclosing copy of a resolution taken the previous day by the Conference of Ambassadors purporting to refer the matter to the Council as one 'Tof the greatest urgency" . Having as yet heard nothing further on the subject, he had just mentioned the fact by telephone to Paris.
The SH 0 RE T AR Y - GS 'ME R AL did not think the substance of the dispute - as distinct from the mere question of the relative significance of two decisions of the Conference of Ambassadors would come to the League at all. Ho further session of the
Court ".s 1 ikely before June, out, the territory affected being of trifling extent, the matter wn3 of no urgency once national
6.
T)r.
Joro so	tisf
rained,	llOr T
aly res	olut
forman	. i ip:
ronort	on :
'• Iff. said his odd moments more still occupied
In particular, he mentioned the satisfactory solution of the
Ind iaii cue a t io n«,
7 < M. oo.		urged tl	ie
"internal1’	OÍ	. .rootor	0
8 a
EA-'aj. said
oils, u
regards following the effect given on
	a lies	lia	i ,u	oom	.e in f	'rom a	1
j_ i \jll	e noti	ibl	e	and	ungra	cious	e:
V	a ort	o o ^ vr	nt	■» p i'g	.ed add	i g i on	al
f 0	r the	coming			sessio	n of	th
matters of transit to the Genoa decisions, not much further could be done.	loir ft
Governments - wit and Colonel fiance On the -gene
was included the question of the reform of the calendar; the initiative had been t alien, on the suggestion of a Member of the Committee, of inviting expert representation of the Holy See, the Patriarchate of Constantinople, and the Archbishopric of Canterbury, froxii the first two of which acceptance had already been received«. This seemed a matter for vigorous, if loc alised publicity^
9. h>ir rtaur 8.nPBh said better progress .was being made with the Greek loan; London, for instance, having made a provisional
offer of	about a million		■- S	to Hungary, it had lately	look	¿arj pc« . V-» U. « >J
thanks to	the influence	of	—' if 9	Benes with the Little intente,		the
Le aggie mi	ght he invoked	in	t ihic	for the nemt Council; the	3 ig	ns
werenow,	however, sornas	» ; -i 4* hu U	X Go	a hopeful, Kino-tenths of	til I	t
problem w	as -oolitic'“ 1, t	he	)' i J]	ricial and economic aspects	boi	ilg
decidedly simple* than in the sustrion case,
he h.A already acquired a mass of materiel - and, indeed, gone so x r as to dr ft a scheme.
10. , ro lessor it If „hi s .id the Mandates Commission had sat for ■¿hrgo weeks, through intense heat and under extreme pressure of sort. Ho paid a special tribute to the results achieved by the central services in ensuring the punctual preparation of documents fo r t lie C ounc i 1.
. ¡leven reports L d been examined and the s- irit of cooperation shown bp re-resent at ives of the mandatory Powers had augured well for the future of the institution. On the special uertion of the Bon&elzwart affair, some divergence of opinion had been shown. Be: ides a majority vie. /, the report showed separate nos itiOhs taken by the President and two other individual members of the Commission, In general, however, the conclusions were suffi-
ciently	unfavourab1e to	tie bond'	story	Power	to a.	s s ure	the report of
conside	rah1e at t ention,	both in	* 'Uth	Africa	, and	else.	/here.
1.0	to the jlavery i	quest ion,	ns /	re''lies	had	come	from Portugal
snd -hilvador. Incident ¿illy, this matter and tint of the -byssinian ap- lication - though for.¡.ally sialinot - might prove not unrelated in pr ctioe. they would both come before the jixth Committee, where they might or might not be referred to distinct sub-committees. yhilo certain lovers h A actually opposed the presence of an Abyssinian delegation at the assembly on the one ■uestion, it could evidently not be prevented on the other.
bBORllpdY-G-aahllii said no idmission had hitherto been
contested in the -SBewbly Committee. It might, ho ever, be very difficult to admit '..byssinia without some definite undertaking as
-oparcs the future.
. E. LHC-II remarked on the number of University questions which
-:p in r. coat i lined
bringing before flow of realies
the -ssembly. So also alluded to the
to the Intellectual co-operation questionnaire.
—ti-
ls . III. GOLIiAII, referring to Hr. i;augh1 s resignation, said
it vas wholly non-political, being so lei;-.
t trii;uJ
unsolicited and exceptionally attractive opening offered bin by the Canadian Government. Sir Herbert Amies e greed.
13. A number oi supposedly settled Danzig ouestions v:ore being re-opened. He hoped, however, that no »7 agreements vo ul d be reached in time lor submission to the Council, "lie rocerfc strike, reflecting: the plunge or the marl:, had ended in an agreement. Unconfirmed references to non and more serious disturbances wore, however, appeariry in the Press - a likely enough, though by no means an inevitable, repercussion of events
in Germany.	It	was Danzig'	's fate to	share the dis;	
but none o f	the	advantages	of printir	ig in Lori in.	C!
Salter had again pressed the Conference ox Ambassadors to attend to this matter.
14.	Becent Albanian legislation affecting churches and schools had been duly submitted for the Council's information. vo hoped, they would merely be noted, without such a discus, ion of small points as might compromise the peace now so sorely needed in Albania.
15 o The Aoport by the Czech Government on the huthene t err it ay would probably be ready lor communication ii pressed for by the Co one il.
16.	The		statements	by the
Court	i	ii	c o :me c t i on	With t.
up pec	re		provoked	protest
howev	er	*	been made	on the '
17.	rm J.xi	c	Polish Gov	e runout
pro pa	if-	nd	a by syrup;.	thetic
the n	um	.er	us clcusus	c. s a o-i
.¡ue stion h„
U, il
ho att:
U b . tv L. ..JO
.es on fans on tme sinect o:
in Hoimx>.
7
The League's intcx’es . in this quest ion was as - et coni ino 1 to a
=!-nnr». f, _
oi i-ir’l (
O J-
10. bliile visit Ins Sudanis, ho had oc refully observe6 the Secretary General's instructions to deal primarily with liaison matters, discussing minorities only at the desire of the aurnaniene . Their reception throughout had been excellent, and results had in the main been good. M. Ho den had established close relations vl th the Tress section of the foreign Ilinistry; and he personally
had	been urged to see	1: information,	v/hether by	correspondon
or	by inquiry on the	spot, on all m.	-tiers oi ir	it crest. The
uno1	fiicial relations	p re scrised fo r	by the T h ir	d em o ly xi
thus nov/ established, with practically all the important States. His attention would next be devoted to Belgrade.
19. ^s	regards the	possible revision oi	the ree .. hinoritie
Tr’eaf. ■'T --x ^ ^ u « >	th is c ouId,	vx"t e x‘ ruciiic l. lx o±i 9	be undertaken by the
Council.			
20. The Green Government were impatient to see set up the proposed Greco-Turhish Intermigration Commission. This could now, however, be furthered till ratification of the Treaty mar.
limited, field of choice.
21. Dam e ha ch e 1 CHO. IDY said
ive or Opium Committees.
? °
^ in •
ct X G l
op ium tr a f f ic. IT o p a t r on;
5 OUI	■pos	g persons	o a.	xiur	■ope	an
thou	gh,	of cours	f ,	tne	non	-
oi cert		ain state	C 1 m _u	.f -U O 1 i	a somewhat	
olm o	i r cl	news tli	^ 1	pa -y	'ic-' '	of t lie
i cj. j. hr	■ore	rnment di	■a not a		or	the
ing	n ‘g	the furtk	. ■ X	o to;	; o f	ti c ' h
to	o e ■	able on o	atu	rdr a	to	gi VC
. bus	tri	an Cinema	Co	imi >an		0
in	c on:	meet ion a	ith	r. a	iln	on L:; 0
-.■</ > ■ o	sou,	yht, ;.hou.		th or	e '.a	'■ in
t b o	sh	in tj		Seer a a		arirt
-3-
durin.fr the Assembly« The ,'fter sone discussion, it Section micht sup .ly “ny nothin.“* further should be
film itself v/rs of poor quality, "us rgreed tint the Information figures already published, but the. done to associate the lo yue with
the 'production
34
i
of mioi:s.
Directors Meeting IT°92.
Addendum,
MI MUTES OF DIRECTORS MEETING HELL Oil THURSDAY AUGUST 16th. 1923
At the request of Dame Rachel Crowd;/ the following sentence is Doing inserted immediately after the first line of p.8 :
"DAME RACHEL CKOhDY protested strongly against
any association of the Secretariat with the film production in questionYT
OM
38
distributed, to Undor-fg tarios-Genoml ir_gGtor¿'.~~
"v o? iiatiohs.
Directors Hoot in" do. 93, Geneva,
August 24th, 1923.
IÍIIIUTH3 OP DIHCCIOPSt iMBTIUG hold on de due sday, August 22nd, 1923.
öecre tary-General i... Aveno 1 Professor Attolico Dr, Uitobo Sir Herbert Amas ivi. mantoux Dr. van Hamei kr. Gelban Sir Arthur Galten Dame Hache 1 Crovdy m. Gomert ivi c G.i cj,cl q. i* i aga ivi. Haas
Dr. Dormán ..hite k. Jenis Major Johnson
Mr. Manning - ^ecretary.
1.	M. 1vjADAHI.-i.GA gave some impressions of the meeting of
the Inter-Parliamentary Union at Copenhagen, He had been forcibly struck by the imperfect knowledge , of the 700 parliamentarians present, on the v.or : of the League, especially as their voluntary attendance might have been thought to reflect an interest in international affairs. He particularly mentioned discussions on the Mandates \ or ", which ns in general approved; on Disarmament, on mulch the conclusions reached had been strikingly similar to those embodied in the Paris form of the Treaty of mutual Guarantee ; find on the Hungarian Optants1 quostion, when vary strong but apparently disinterested accusations brought by a Hollander against the Council had gone unanswered. fhough the trench delegation had been relatively weak, the sympathies of the conference as shown in a general
-2
debate on economic matters had not been pronouncedly pro-Gorman. The discussions were on the whole inclined to be academic, with more evidence of narrow reactionary nationalism than was found among the responsible Government delegations at the League Assembly. The league liaison with the Union should, he thought be closer and more continuous; our materials might greatly assist the studies of their various novj permanent commissions. Incidentally k. Thomas, who was accompanied by a numbsr of his staff, had included in a lecture on the j.I.T. some telling allusions to the achievements of the League,
2.	Tie turning through Berlin, he had conversed with three
notabilities. Herr i^altzan, provisionally in charge of Foreign Affairs, seemed to distrust the overtures in Poincare’s Charleroi speech as inspired mainly by the need of political capital for use against London. His rather odd practical objection to a reference of the problem to the League v;as the necessity for a speedy solution to forestall chaos in Germany, France was 3mown to have circularised important Governments that her assent to Germany’s admission to the League would be strictly conditional on: l) a new recognition of all her obligations incurred under or subsequent to the Treaty of Versailles; 2) abandonment of any special claim as regards Council representation; 3) her readiness to fulfil her obligations under 1). Horr Maltzan appeared, in insisting for a Council seat, to ha e in mind immediate rather than permanent representation. He apparently could not contemplate Germany’s entry except as the outcome of an agreement with France.
Herr Von .Billow, of the German League of Hat ions Union, opined that »ormany's entry, though acceptable to the Socialists was opposed bj the ..ilholmstrasso , but that references in the
-3-
¿ocislist programme to tho Yolkcrbund had reg ard not to tho •pies on t League but to an ideal of choir o- u.,	( This ¿..Madariaga
doubted). It so a mad ha would have likod some clear hint from ths League in fa/our of a ...erman application; as also the occasional invitation of Harman help on a political question, for instance, the Treaty of Guarantee, to the present form of which Germany’s innumerable rose rvations could be most practically summed up in an unqualified negative.
according to Theodor Vo Iff, of the berlinger i'ageblatt, the exhaustion ox last year’s harvest, coupled 7/ith the unforeseeable effects of drastic new experiments in taxation, made anything possible until the new harvest began to come in in six weeks’ time. Trouble w/ould take the form of communisc food riots with possible reactions from the Right.
3.	The HSCRiSTAHY-GKN3RA.L, dealing first v/ith Copenhagen,
v?as inclined to discount the present or future importance of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, which he would be content merely to supply V7ith do cuine nt s.
k. COiiGRT observe a that k. Lange and he had been in constant touch, especially during the preparations for last year’s mooting of the Union in Vienna.
oir ARTHUR oALTIiR on the other hand, recalled the useful discussions by the International Chamber of Commerce on non-' official aspects of problems under consideration here and the wholesome respect for the League which if had develop?! in the process.
kr. Of. IB AN contrasted the critical and general approach of the Union, on minorities questions, .ith the League standpoint, so rigidly based as it ,;as on treaties. Tho Council, had like -wise reached a clear definition of policy regarding the
Saar
-4-
and seemed on the way to some thing similr. r for Danzig. On such, and probably on any other political questions, collaboration «as clearly impracticable,	worsovor, in the ease at any
rati of Scandinavia, t 10 active members of the Union were in many ins ton cos . ither opponents of th ' overnmont or no longer in parliament.
of tii. Union, agreed that th only in their character ns
from past	a wo o rl	once on the	executive
oy need be	taken	ith great	SO: iousno
alarmingly	ignor	ant parliamc	;ntarians.
m. A/dtIOL similarly laid stress on their amateurish and non-re sponsible .¡uality tvs persons vocal, on foreign affairs, ohie fly outside the ir own parliaments.
M. mAPARIAGm however insisted that this time at any rate there had b men no dearth of colobrit'ias, including the President
of the aeichst	ag ana Count Apponyi ;	and in many'	c ount ri 3 s they
we re headed by	the President of the	Lov/or house,	an office not
likely to Do h	old by a critic of the	Go v o rnmant.	lould nothing
be done to counter such sincere but ill-informed attacks on the Council as that he had described?
The 33CRC1AKY-G.-ill 8RAL thought there v;as no prospect of preventing the airing of the viev/s of discontented communities -even through the instrumentality of disinterested third parties. He however, agreed ;;ith Professor Attolico that known friends of the League might be armed in good time before those mo citing’s with any relevant documents.
hi. COAjKT again referred to the instruction imparted to last year's mooting through M. laiigc , and favoured the regular attendance of .... ^adariaga.
It was agreed that liaison could not be pushed beyond a supply of documents, supplemented by judicious rep re so nt.it i ons to members making grave mis-statements in public meeting.
“i-	as rogiirij the amission of 'amen; , th . djJCRj.'IAT.f-
G iSf $ -’iili said b-.: n- (1 understood ts .t the . ’r a noli sould ish. to have th-.; Hung fir i ,n precedent folio od in the shap. of a formal declaration recognising tro .tg obligations ,
Dr. 7 All EAivliL said ho could not picture beriaan; 1 s admission oxcoo t as a constituent qlomont in a general financial and political settlement. He agreed 1 th the ce cr ct ary -Gone ral and mg Jolban in the opinion that Harr von dill or; -was less influential in Germany than he imagined.
5»	I'ho meeting then considered point by ooijit two notes
prepared by m. Jin .is eii the dottailed arrangements for th-.
St.mD1 a
For the composition of the Committee for the Verification of Credentials the diSCRiSTASY-GiSli hllhiL as Iced or. van Hamel, as in previous years, to prepare a suitable list to be unofficially handed to some accommodating delegate. Fhe -;nda Committee would, on the other hand , have to be nominated by the fresident himself, so hoped that the President - h oøver might be elected -would make only the briefest actnovlodginent cf the honour and then proceed at once to a short adjournment to familiarise himself .with his duties.
Pr	o f e s s o r		", rn rrf- t -r r\ r\ .? dl .1 -LU UluU -a ’J	ared public disappointment a	t too
short a so	-Tr-h • j Oiy. ,	I., .. if.;	also eu^go	sted that • ji interval might,	Jl l
necessary ,	be a	V-ii H ; o il<„	od 0;; all. •	ing the ’ore sidont provisoira	! to
constitute	the six		c o niii.i 11 "t O', o.		
The SiflCPJiTARY-GlJi!STUL thought it duo to the position of the ne v; president, as v -j 11 as required under the Pule:, of
Procedure, tint he should assume authority forthwith on election. He could simply propose setting up six committees and at once suspend the mooting.
It -..as understood taut some pr j liminary discussion might be fore so on on particular items j T too Ponda before its re f e ronco to th. .. c:nda Commit t . . >k le get; s would be
O o
invited. - in inscribing tier-elves - to indicate the ;o-rticulav subject, if tiny, of the intended speech, Any ynoesrr nee of rigidity in this rust, hov.-ovor, he nvoidei end the President would in any csss seek to include a fogoed speeches in each dry 1 s -programme „
Professor ATTOLICO incidentally sug rested that the In form tion Section might assist journalists "by amplifying the Agenda rarer for instance with headings from the various re porta.
Passing to the classifies then of questions among the Committees, the meeting agree ^ that, while any legal aspects would naturally "be referred to No, I, thePleport os All oca tion of Expenses should at first core "before No., IT* also that Intellectra Co-operation and the various Spanish proposals regarding 'Tnivsr-sities should go to Ho. V rather than to No, II; and that while Refugees in general should remain with No. T, the report on Greek refugees should be prepared in two parts so that tho more recent, financial, phase night go to No. II.
Secretaries would be provided as follows No. I - the Legal Section; No. II - NI. Denis assisted successively by members of the several Sections concerned; No. Ill Nfiadai iaga; no» IV - Hr, Bieler; No«. V - Dame Rachel Crowdy and Professor Ilelecki; No. VI - M„ Mantoux, assisted shore necessary by Mr. hosting and Professor Rep-oard; the Agenda and Credentials Committee - the Legal Section.
Dr. VAN HAMEL submitted that the services of two stenographers to provide the basis of the minutes for No, I would be all but indie-oensahle,
Sore discussion ensued.
The SECRET ARY-GENERAL considere it desirable that Sections should as far as possible take the responsibility for
such verbatim, notes as might be needed. Exceptional considerations
7
tit was hit:	5 GXpti	rience
L cvvb o cx, b	logic	oily
MANTOIL?,	while	tgreein
against	this	sy s tern;
other re	:p oe ts	, might
could re ms in for- discussion 'between the Secretary concerned snd Pr o fo 75sor Attolico»
LI, 11ABAEIAOA asked Yr a ruling on trio pronsr reply to delegates who deliro l a verba fciir report of their ene eolias,
SIR ARTHUR SALTER said thi that each requests should be firmly pointing to lit iti.ess expense.
Professor ATTCLICO said verbatim notes /ore ox little valuó for the condensed style of minute /ri ting which ought to bo aimed at for these Con-r-ittoes* Declarations could alvays be handed in to bo published integrally as annexes.
sn the score of economy, r.ember of the Section _*k hie aptitude for
preparing a good analytical resume.
The SECRET ART- GBKERAL however, considere - it a noce *3ary qualification dependent chiefly on practice. I,lean-while , the reply asked for by II. Madariaga would be that verbatim records 'ero too expensive and were not kept in the other Corr itteos.
It \r s agreed that the question of the method for the adoption of the budget would best bo treated by the Assembly Bur ok u, being rather a motto:-' of preliminary practica than or,e for the formalism of tho first Committee. The legal aspect was indeed, already settled; unanimity in the Assembly was indispensable.
The SECRETARY-GENERAL was against the suggestion that the Assembly should take the budget in two ret dings, Father it should bo voted on, first item, by item, and than as a whole, in Tío. IV, without insistence on unanimity. Tho President could then put the resulting total to the Assembly.
Ti, AVENQL indeed con si lor ed the t as no Govorumen t was u ore pi e sen ted in Wo. IV the total thorn recommended ought to pe on the plenary mooting autoira ticolly.
Profo saor A IT 01100 pointed out the riskiness under present circumstances of anything v/hioh might appear aimed to limit the Assembly1 d oompetonoe in this matter. An to the sequence in the Plenary Meeting, parliaments were best accustomed to voting on an amendment before the substantive motion.
The 3TCRTTARY-GINTRAL however, attached some importance to securing that the agree L nor cion of the budget should be conclusive ly voted before a compromise was sought on contentious items. Prcnosals for a vagus oercentave reduction would thus be forestalled: and, finally, a second revised total, including what survived of these items, coul1 be rut to the vote.
The SHCfPT 1HT-G1N'-RAL mentioned 8 recent re-.ruest from, the Congress of League of Nations Unions in Vienna for the printing of some o 1 their resolutions in the Assembly Jounr 1. They had been told that the Sec ’etarint \i> s not in a position to comely. He thought the effect of this refusal might be softened by a further letter sugge 3ting that they might try what could be done through the President of the assembly (who /as, after all, competent to put 'uch a ratter before the bureau) It would also ne according to precedent if he were to receive the delegation they were understood to be sending to the Assembly.
Dr, VAN HAIIEL gave particulars regarding the ratification of amendments to the Covenant, Article IV still uwaited Trance and Spain prid the adoption by Belgium, had yet to be officially com-m.uoicv ted. Tor Article VI there remained Italy, Brazil and Uruguay
Professor ATTOLTCO however uolerstood that Rome would be issuing the necessary Decree 1 thin a few lays, an 1 the Secretory-General recalled that it wen still a moot point what late should be deeme 1 decisive in fixing the composition of the Oouicil for Pur po 3e 3 of r^ t i f i on t ion „
33
_.i^G7'E OF flLTIOHS.
Directors'Meo t i ng Ao Err aium,
jíj
R R
M
Minutes of Directors1 Meeting Eo„ S3»
The following paragraph should he submitted the paragraph at the bottom of page 2 beginning: "Herr yon Bulow, of the German League of Rations ’’Herr yon Bulow, head of the League of Department in the German Foreign Office,had unconvincingly sought to interpret away the
f or
Uni on,"
l. at i ons
rather
referen
in the Socialist programme, to the Volkerbund - as haying regard not to the existing League but to a
party ideal still to be realised; thereby leaving the impression that neither the League'per se'nor its place in that programme was viewed with any satisfaction by the WilhelmstrasseJv
LEAliUJS OF
' . .	35
nAT IOiv O e
Distributed to Under-	Directors’ Mecting Do. 9&
ge oretaries-General d Directors.
Geneva, September 13th, 1923,
Mil. UTSS OF DIREGTQ-.B 1 IdFHTIt Q held on Wednesday. September lSth^lGSS.
Present:	The Secretary-Gon^ral,
M, Avonol,
Dr. Hi tobo,
Professor Attolico,
Sir Herb rt Ames,
Dr „ Van Hamel,
Mo Mantoux,
S ir Ar thur S alt er ,
Mo Go lb so ,
Professor Rappard,
Dr o Ranchman,
Dame Rachel Crowdy,
Mo G omer t,
I!. Madariaga,
Mo Haas,
Major Johnston,
Ma Arocha,
Mr. Huston,
Mo Vigier,
Mr. Manning, Secretary^
The SHCR3TARY-GBH3R Al explained that a choice must bo made between the alternative courses proposed in the Fourth Committee by H. Reveil laud aiid M. van Eysinga. A majority in the Committee were evidently under instructions to press for important economies.
H. Reveillaud' s proposal was to invite the Supervisory Commission to draw up, in agreement with the Secretary-General, a programme of considerable reduction - especially on technical organisations. The figure of 1,500,000 fxs. had been mentioned. Sev ral speakers had supported him absolutely. 1!. van RysingaTs proposal was that the Fourth Committee should itself seek, item by item, possibilities of reduction. M. Osuzky was on the "hole
2
in favour of the former course, as allowing of more responsible control over the choice of items to be reduced, rn important con-si deration if permanent detriment to the League was to be averted,
Li. AVEFOL remarked that in conversation with Li. Eeveillaud he had himself boon inclined to favour this as being the safer r® thocU Professor PTT01IC0 also considered it the more expedient alternative, though objectively dangerous and unconstitutional in that the Supervisory Commission had no indication of what work the Assembly was willing to cancel. Apart from certain minor cuts which the Secretariat could suggest, very little would be possible.
The fTECTET ARY-GEFER Al. said he understood M. Osuzky to bo strongly against any revision which did not correspond to a change in the facts. Thus on Chapter 1, experience might allow a reduction of 82,000. On Chapter 2, there ^as the automatic saving of 100,000 based on the fall in the cost of living; the Entertainment Fund oculd again be curtailed; printing in Franco could be shown to allow of economy on publications; and with bills coming in more punctually less could be provided to meet unpaid liabilities. These four items might furnish a further 195,000. In Chapter 4, loss on ex-change would probably be balanced by a profit on exchange, giving anoth--I or 100,000. Beyond this the Supervisory Commission could not relieve the Assembly of responsibility for the refusal of funds asked for as indispensable. This aspect might perhaps to most fittingly referred to a joint committee of the Second and Fourth Commissions.
These opportunist devices seemed to him a "doe preference for the present year, rather exceptional in virtue of the heavy
requirements in respect of working capital.
Sir Arthur S VITER urged that stress should be laid on the ^qo-Inonies effected in the last twelve months. To set out to cover the&rcu.’i ■afresh in 24 hours wpuld be pure self-stultification. While agreeing,
therefore, that further efforts should bo In ft for the Assembly, he thought that, from the point of view of minimising dislocation, particular items, such as the Conferences on Bills of Exchange, E quit a-
I
tie Treatment of Commerce or Double Taxation, could be nanedL, -Thich would have the effect of rallying the support of interested lielegates and of diverting attention from items less understood, thougk -
probably more
important. For instance, Special .[inquiries and Unforeseen Contingencies were to hi a mind the- most valuable features in the budget« Thus the usefulness of a mission to Budapest -should the Hungarian problem coma before the League - could scarcely be exaggerated.
Sir Herbert Ames favoured leaving Chapter '6 to the Fourth Committee assisted by explanations from the Directors concerned. He would not, in fact, refer this Chapter to the Supervisory Commission at all.
The 8 a cr_etarj-Gen srsi said all possible help should also be accepted from the Presidents of the technical commissions.
Professor Attclico observed that as regards certain items an assurance might be welcomed that the momy would in no circumstances be transferred to a different object but would become a surplus in the event of a failure ox She purpose for nrkltik it had been voted. Some thing mi gut also be saved if the provisions for Special inquiries and Unforeseen Contingencies in the various sections w: re group-, c together under a single head.
unsound,
r\ r •or	no al	admit tec	i h av	in	opp	C 8 0 d	V : i- S
or7/ Comm		ission;	at:	imp I	ied	i nv	itation
H O	a, 1 urn	:p sum m	os ad	mi n i.	str	ativ	ely
		"the					
1 j? o	ever i	f /nope	of a	sur	iu	8 VVO	uld
, S	mailer	budget,	i				
Dr* HajChilian deprecated too much reliance on the judgment of Assembly Committees, so ill-informed wore many
' members on the work of the League.
■or an uc
A /
of their
4
Standing of tie ncrits ox a case and for the protection of a policy be would rather look to the As a e ¡ably Bureau, comprising as it did the leading and most responsible personalities. He also intimated his fear that any reductions, however drastic, suggested from the outside to Committee Ho,4, would merely serve to stimulate its aanetit for saving. It should rather be allowed itself to ¡.a.amine Chapters 1 and 2 and to convince itself that these had indeed reached their minimum. Might not the aecretury-Ceneral indicate as a basis for discussion with the rapporteur, and ultimately with the Bureau, a proportionate maximum reduction for each technical organisation.
This last suggestion was not, however, considered
opportune.
li. Colb an recalled his own earlier cent-ntj.-n that Directors should themselves h'= instructed to defend their respective budgets. The techricol commissioners, however keen, were +he nomine:a of governments and of. r took toe narrow a view. Directors should be prepare cl to suggest quite frankly the In,*st mischievous lines for further so.orifice. In his cm section h . might defer filling one of two posts now vacant. Similarly it mi ht be unnecessary in the first half of 1924 to use the -’or.y asked in view of the Turkish problem. Presumably the circumstances of ether sections had also changed in sene minor respects.
Mo Haas thought the tasi, of the Secret .ri t and the Supprvisory Commission might he lhit -d to classifying the
various itc	<'* <-s c* .-.O ; ulb	Oli li.ll 6 ClJt ij *.	v. i J >	r. o - o	st mb:	’ -1	to t . 11or:;
functioning	of the League and,		c-n	to e	0 th	■y 'J* J	as repaired
cxclusivsly	for	suppl c me n t ary	und	ert	akin	~ •-j r	liven as r
gards this	second	class he doub	a. f .c u 6 U.	if	tb e	4 th	Ccnuiii as ion
would in the end venture very far in recommending sap-prescions»
Dr: Van Hamel wondered whether too Supervisory Commission might not he reinforced for the appreciution of matters of policy by the ter.:porary addition to it of leading specialists from the various Commissions.
It was finally agreed toot, as imparts Crap ter 3 Directors should consult doe original report of the supervisory Commission in which cert air. possible liras cl economy had been suggested and should prepare state: nts of the modification of policy implied in economies on particular points. Those statements could be cugolifiod by explanations given to the Supervisory Commission by the various Directors and the Bapmorteurs for their oryun-
is at ion	C5 vj J	The	sex its	of ccncciv	role sacrifices which
M. Os us	Iry	weal d	thus b	>- cnaol^ o .	submit _or the decider
of ilr	As	.oiiiblj"	would	add fcrce	t o b 1 s p 1 e a x c r ir a. i r
tenance of those items which the supervisory OOiimisaici c r -
tinned unwilling to spare(
Directory's Meeting No, 95
Pis tribu ted to Under-Secretarios
Directors
L3RGUE OP lUTIOUSo
klPUl’Il 3 OF PIRPOT 0R31 HD JT IRQ hel d on V/e dnosday , 3rd Oct cter.
GHHR7,,, October 6th, 1913
Pre so nfc:
rp t--i- li	c3	dO	ere'
i.i O	li	.76	nol
Dr	•	Hi	tobi
Pr	of	0 S	sor
Si		Ho	rbe:
Me Mantorne Dr, Van Hard P r of o s s o r Rap p a r d Dr ■> Raje hman Dane Rae hel C rowdy
iix o *j our i *>
Li» Madariaga
LR Haas
Mr o Gilchrist
II, Le or-Did: our
Mr, Manning (Secretary?
1,
The Secretary-General said that while views as to
the general position of the League following upon the Assembly might of course vary, he personally was by no moans discouraged: the part it had played after only four years of life promised well for the League’s authority in tin future, On a point of detail, he thought that in future years the President should be ashed to propose) to the Bureau that the elections of lion-Permanent Council Ha inters should be held not later than the first week, Shis time the impending elections had made for an at no sphere of intrigue and indirect pressure in the Commissions besides detracting from Vae interest of the ordinary work» Such delegations, if any, as should choose to lo-avo immediately after the elections could hardly be seriously missed, The recrudescence of lavish entertaining this year - doubt le 5
2,
t he	s&me cause	- also shewed	the	Laagu
In	future the	Bureau might,	as	at t he
7,	di scourage	c s t c n t at i o us h o	spi	tal.lt y
part]./ due to ti
a bad light 3
Professor Happarcl renarkod that next year at any rate t ho election would presumably have to await the result of the worfc of the First Committee on the amendments to the Covenant*
Jr Van Hamel wished to put on record his fear b at early elections would prove difficult of acceptance and added that, in the view of the more- advanced liberals, the spirit of a re pro cent at ice system favoured this control of olectors over candidates» 'This was the main ground of opposition to proposals for throa-yearly appointments and for non ro-eligibiiity«
2 ho Cecrctary-Coneml, r.hiI
■> —v'i ,
: o g nisi ng t ho force e:
this view as veil as the possibility of administrative difficulties, still thought it would be unfortunate if the British Umpire, disposing,in all, of seven separate votes, should thereby enjoy a disproportionate influence on policy» I.-.-, nyonol agreed: the representative principle, he thought, V; 3s sufficiently satisfied, in that Council members might be expected throughout the year tc hoop in view the possibility of re-election.
2,	' he Socrotary-Cenoral mentioned two most fortunate
sources of unforeseen economy which had enabled the demand of the French and other delegations for a 20 per cent reduction of the budget to bo net without prejudicing the LeagueTs essential work, or dismissing any of the staff ~ al ready, in his view, at a minimum. The cost of printing had considerably fallen; ana the exchanges had moved to our
3,
advantage™ Ilort year., moro o evor. if contribuid oes continued to corno in noil, there should be a further aprarenfc economy
u'der the head of 1er icing Capital.
Professor lappa"		?d mentí	0 i J.G Cl	a sign of waning	interest
which he	hoped would	not be	refit:	jcted in the flow	of rex1j
yoarrs c cncribut ions = The premature departure of the Canadian Delegation was freely attributed to bora don«
The So o rotary-Gene ral said he understood the true reason to have boon the imminence of the Imperial Conference, talon togotriar with the early completion of worii in the Committees, but a hint from the British Delegation would, he thought, have bad a good effect., The Committoos had always boon notoriously apt to fate away from the interest of the assemblyo But tiiis
could sc	i- 'Y^r- r~i "1 tt -J,.. j-j	affect xho	f in a neial fut		12X‘	‘0	
olr	Kerb or	f mif'Oo liad.	ai.	.so noticed	a	n . a -V» 4- i vo O i. \J qL J-J.A	i a ** r"v ■{■' i. clii e* o J-
interest	on t he	part of the		Canadian De	lo çy cl t/ 2. C a e		This however
vas much	le S3 c¡	is tur:ling	to	him than the		poesibil	■Ï "f* O Jl. U ./ V^>
ronewed	■ •> 1/ b.lCl.	next year	on	f iiC üaG0íJ; xj c		The best	hope lay.
he thought, in sedulously cultivating the Supervisory Commie; not mo roly convincing them of our honesty, but seeling to ensn
presented in the Fourth Commit too., spared the advocacy of Lit Oso sly , rth Committee had been mainly composed of officials or members of Governments with p general mandate to support any 'and every economy»
The See rotary-Gone ral agreed, It vss certainly desirable that Governments should, in rao re instances, bo persuaded to appoint men to the fourth Committee who could appreciate pol.itical import of their decisions.
that they	should be v.	■ell
This year	v;o could il	.1 ha
ii o Fourth	Committee	had
and minor	members of	Gove
4,
M. leant oux pointed out hov, well alivo the Budget Committee/in a national parlieroont v;as recuired to be to considerations of polio,y. He thought that at least in certain coses something might bo done to interest Council representatives in tho proceedings of their folior delegates in the Fourth Committee,,
Dim Ba.jchnan thought more might be done, as regards at any rate the technical chapters, to influence, through
tho appropriate services in tho various countries, the instructions given to delegates.
Sir Ho rb o rt no es v< onde re d
if
spring night not, so
to speak, bo struck a little higher up. Last year v;o had b;on roughly handled by the British delegate, this year tho British Government had allowed a complete oxplanation of the budget to bo made long beforehand to a large group ox pariiamoatarians; and, apart from certain book-keeping criticisms prompted by the fro usury, the British delegate in tho Fourth Committee had taken a reasonable lino, ’fhe
French Government, on tho other hand, from the moment the I ague Budget had boon officially attacked in parliament,
had boon irrevocably committed to tho Revo illaud programme. attempts should, he thought, be made to vin over national
cabinets in tho very earliest stages.
I.!, ivenol doubted mhother it was feasible, in viev of the relatibe unimportance of singlo articles of the league budget, to attract to it the- interest of first class men. Everything therefore depended on strengthening the authority already tl is ye; r conceded to the Supervisory Commission, and ensuring that their report should be as comprehensivo end should be circulated as early, as possible. Do legates mi' ht thus come to be instructed to vote, without prelimin: i
discussion, on tin budget
iOlOc
?h o Soc rotar./-Gen oral ng ro o d, but s till thought un effort should bo nado to so curo the bast people for Noe4
C omni tt eo .	> It should at	any rate nivor	bo	alio-, od	to p ,se
unía o t ic o d	if the same del	eg t icn took up	two	.in comp.:	■X i o 1 j
pos it ions	in the fourth C	or mil ta eo raid in	s on	j other	Commit! e
re spoct rvol/c 1 up, as tentatively suggested b
did not think timo would allow of sotting
ad :■ ri aga, a jo{nt commó11
of rno’ol rs of the fourth and of another Connittao to study in their political boaring the various economics proposed
3«. fho Secret ur.y -leñero,! thought it v oul d bo a good and reasonable rule to adopt tl at in future ye,„r no non-official
documents, publi enti on? . or pictures, should bo place d on sale
either	in the Assembly	Hall or	at t he se c rc t ar iat «	g his
t llilG a	compile.int had be	on made	tot he Pro side nt »	He felt a
little	less curtain as	r, gardo	phot ogrc.pihs «	
I r of o o s o r . ■■ 11 o 1 i o o suggested that those taken with the permission either of the President of the ..s so Lib.', y or Co une il cr of the lee rotary-ben-ral. night be treated as exceptional..
Sir Herbert fiscs saw a possibility of a legitimate reven to the League, v bother directly by sales or in the form of royalties*:
It s3 ho’ ever, decided to make known in advance that none but official matter should be sold on the League promis:.' 4, Professor -ttclicc dr ;v? attention to the need for a
>U X u CA.U	ruling ag ¿ins t t ii.)	inclusion	in full
minute	s of ar it t eu s pa e c i	us landed	in by fl-
nt oax	ob s e rv ià t ha t on ir.	¿portant o	ue étions
might bo difficult to reject buu; rios prov ided by . even t ho ugh solio-hat fuller
So l ag ni
than the usual official précis«,
5. Professor lap pal-ci wondereo whether the delegations voting on an appel nominale ought not to*ho enumerates in the .'.sserobly Journal. Even though the reports in the Journal were not definitive, the result of a discussion was surely of as great importance as the arguments use'?
Phe Secretary-General agreed: he had not, in fact, notice;, the omission.
S.	dr. Hr, - ohi.tFii as he a whether admission to the body of the .Assembly Hall might not he more rigidly controlled. Children, at any rate, should, he thought, he excluded, though perhaps not necessarily the wives of the delegates as well«,
Ilojisisur Comert thought the established liberty of entrance to the secretariat buildings was erurally unsatisfactory. The Secretariat would certa-inly be held responsible for any resulting irregularities.
lionsieur Madariaga complained that at all times of the year he found himself troubler by uninvited strangers.
Professor . ttolioo said it was a difficult and complicated matter to regulate. Any rule adopter should, he thought, be applied throughout the 3rear. He would study the matter, and see ?/hat could be done.
7. The Sec r et ary-G en ejral c ons idered that, the Ciraolo scheme having now been passed by the Assembly for communication to Governments, it should henceforth be handled by some definite Section, rather than by a Committee, as in the past.
-7-
It v/as agreed to entrust the Sootion.
8_, _ Rhe_ 3 e01 ctary-Cenotal ¡ end. of the month to visit h orinen i,
natter to the -ocial
said ho erneote towards the and possibly Aungary.
A’here would he tine to oonsid or the agenda of the newt Council fleeting. - fine- definitely for feeember 10th - on. h. return.
9.	lions i out Arntoux: intimate d that four Governments.
11
acting through the 'on	vc re	.ce	Oj. .moas s ad urs,	had just
seise-., the Teague with	the	gu	stion of Ilemel.	Article
•paragraph 2 was invohe	' , with		alie g aji ons ap a	lust lita
7he Secretary -Cener al, i:
re pi; ho
explaineh that, uniihe paragraph 1, p&rag;
j) CoO* l j J-! a -’ll	2 d id	n o t
f the Con:	LIO Í1 .	"her e
.etner tne	present was	
suitable cuestión for the he a rue
;cnt	i on	to rece;	t article
the	Go-	uzscil fo:	■ the nil:
; on	to	empress	doubt as
of the Assembly agenda, and went on to express ccntt as to the policy of sending whilst still in a 'provisional form, for the observations ox the Cove mine: ts, matters such as the Ruff ini project and the fact of mutual Guarantee.
?hep .-A®0r®~Pe- i!' ral pointe . to tho special reasons for consulting the Governments in regard to the Ruffini project f clearly a matter of domestic jurisdiction), and the Guarantee treaty - further progress with which need obviously net he defer re'., till the next Assembly.
11. Referring to the recent crisis, and especially to its accidental coincidence with a session of the Council
-e~
ar.fi of the Assembly, Pr. van Famol wondered whether the lover merits ought not to he encon.re^e 1 to maintain peminently in Geneva representatives who night support
t e ■: e c	rot	n V V Cv.1- •.	-	G 9 ■	n e	ral at	c<	in i 1	ar	junctures	a: ö	Lli	ght
t li e reb y	en	0 iX	e	t	he	Icagu	G 1	s ml	ght	ful influ	ence	ag	a in
coning	ful	ly	i	-•> 4* i~L u	0	play.							
In	re	pi!	h	t	he	S CC."C	ta		ere	ral cnipha	sise	Jr- J	h e
a £. *V til i- cX	; c	0 J	jl	av	ill	g on t	he	0 ou	uoi	1 reprose	U Ü c ^0 -L*V G		3
normally ii. intiaate contact with national affairs , Governments permanently represented in Geneva, won13
to	entrust the C01	moil worlc to	Jr u
s is,	the summoning	of the Co- -o'	LI
It was agreefi to discuss before the next suggestion bvr hr of es 0 or . -ttolioo that the
s imp1e onongh«,
12.
Assembly a
debate on the worh of the Council should, as a settled practice, bo held over so as to allow of early headway with wor!: in the Commissions.
13. Ilonsieur Pufour reports- that the United States Government, after having at first refused to participate in the Customs b lererce, had now decided to be reprosente there by an observer, assisted by emperts.
11. Professor fan ard having merit lone; uneasiness
among the	lower staff,	oau.se?. by	rumour3 of in:	ie Plate
re!uction	of salaries,	was ashed	to refer any c	inquiries to
Profess or	Attolico.			
ljm	Go an er«-'iii	ry by Prof	ess or fappard,	the
¿caretary-	•General said	he had no	objection to	University
lecturing by members of the secretariat being continued during the winter, it being understood that such tails should be confine«, to historical exposition of the league's worlc.
16.	Hors i cur Uaas, describing the meeting of the
Int	emat i onal Pai Iwap	■ Union, ¡rentione'	the t cm	ral sympathy
the	re manifested with	i biie aims ox t a	coning	ansit
Con	ference. . dele;	:aticn representir	ig ' ussia,	just
admitted for the first time to the Union, had, on hohalf of the Soviet Commissariat of .transport, made a formal declaration, which in so far as it disparage' the Lea; tie had met with a very cold reception.
In conversation with one of lion si our f chit oher in's socretarios, i ionsionr ' iaas had pot tho impression that invitations to co-operate in technic:.! fields might not, in future, he iinweleome to Uoscow; and had intimate' the League' s readiness, on a basis of reciprocity, to supply the Prussian government with its published documents. he fancie^-it was the tendency in Poissia to overestimate, rather than to vlinh, the importance of the League in Unrobean politics.
lloiisienr liadariara remarlred that Possia was bein'"1 invited to nominate experts to discuss the creation of the extension of
1, ^ ~'i b 11 e .	ras h in g	ton 0o;:vention 1:
	17			hr, Paichman, re
P e rme	n e n't h	salon 0rp a; asl. bi
been	urging	its acceptance '
t o 11:	c hone	0 or v e ii t i o ri, an d
had r	;lre ad v	, it seemed, bee
capita	pi	ships.
0 m o	e:	:ie f or a
,i!
the wrench C-overnment had the ••'overnments signatory
able replv from .'jnerioa
C -, laV J l
1G. Dr. '• itohe merit lone an unfortun to rumour, described o.s emanating from the Chinese Pels;union, atti i'bn.ti:, p; China's nori-s1 vocoss in tho elect!. to domination' of the League by
v o of that d el ego, r ±. 2 o: t lx is purp os 3 e
the ueoie	5 u CloT i <EL u «	there was	ever	s a i	to be
had been	circular	issd bp the	h ocr	star it	it fo:
-10-
The ^ octet ene ral as auto 'Or. itobd of the absolute untruth of this report. fho fact vas, ho bclloved , that, inview of the cuirent estimates of the authority of the present Chinese Government, even a concerted propaganda bv the whole Secretariat nirht well have failed to secure
:'s elect ion.		
Sir 'forbert An	.es mentioned	tha
it of several	jtates whose	o or;
itly been paid,	lie had , on	what
)X uiiG : IOC u 1 OH	., issued, an	up - t
the league1 s financial position, '.'hose tender-o1 must inevitably have beer, to we alien the onndnature of Jhira.
Directors'
Lie et in? 9 6
MINUTES OP THE
DIRECTORS
MEETING ON RLE PNC SPEY, 17 th OCTOBER
Present :
Sec: clary Tenor 1 Dm Nitobe Dr „ IN- j c hmann Sir Herbert- Ames Sir Arthur Salter Dr, van Hamel Mr. Sweetser Hr, Gilchrist Colonel Hi am Monsieur Aghnides Monsieur Catastini C omrna nd e r Ja c liman Mr. 7c Iters (Secretary)
1.	The SECRETARY GENERAL said that there had been an interesting and important controversy in the British Press
on the result of the I to lo-Greek dispute and on the no sit ion of the League. Still more important had been tee discuss, on in the Imperial Conference at which all the Dominions Prime Ministers had declared the' r support of the League. Of particular importance, perhaps, had been the declaration of Mr. Massey, who, while saying that lie did not think it was a certain safeguard against war, added that it had nevertheless done much very valuable mil: and ought to be su'werted . This was of interest in view of the fact that Hr. Massev had al-w.ys been considered as somewhat unfavourable to the League.
2.	The programme of the Covveil Mooting of the 10th December would necessarily be a very long and full one. Nevertheless, the Members could hardly be expected to stay beyond the 20th December. It was, therefore, important that all documents for the Meeting should be got out as early as possible. A circular had been sent round on the 4th October , giving a preliminary list of subjects on which documents wore renuired.
«3 •	He was	1 o a v i ng G on e v a	on the 2f:
after	that he	■"ou 11 ?o to Bu	da. Pesth t
tion ’■	”ith the	Doan question,	but being
-2-
old promise and thereafter to Borne, returning to Geneva on f b o u t t he 1 ) t h ] T o v em b 0 r.
4.	Sir Arthur SAISSR said the t the nomrat ion Comm is si on
lied nor given on the nuiigsrim question a decision which lira been contemplated during the negotirtions here end the Finance
Committee rvs no.. free to set to work.
was that Aonsiour „vend , iionsieur 3top-Ld go to Bnda Pesth to get the neeossary lore t he ‘inane ia 1 Committee. The y ling of November and be bach about tho EOth November. The Committee would meet on the 3rd December.
Tho moment was, of course, a very difficult one for the raising of money and the whole scheme micht perhaps break down on tins side 5..	.is r9.go.r-3 the financial situation of Danzig, he had
just received a very satisfactory communication from London.
ryi	i-hi	nr	; V> < ' U ' ’	it ol
pani a	yi	hi:	ilSøl	1 S il
inform	a t j	.on	to	laTT ’
- • ould	VO	i I]	tho	b e ■ ?
6.	hr., Aorgenthan 1 'ould arrive in fur ope in a fe" weeks
on his way to Greece. He much hoped that the Committee on Htchang0 of wooulr.tions between Greece and Turkey •"ould not take any stops which "•ould make it difficult for tho Greek Givornment to put the agreed area of land at the disposal of
tho Belief Commission.
Lh AGHIIDAS said that in .a private letter from the Prime minister, he - eg told that the Crook Government was serious -
ly	disquieted about this	ms tt	er.	Tho	C onira i	S3 ion on	live hang
of	Populations • :s takin'	i- the	lira	A r., J \jL1 -	t t lie	property	of in-
dil	ridual Turks must be vc	:lued	and	the	V£ lU G	recorded	b 3 f 01 0
they could leave. This might be a sound Proposition from tho business noint of vie’-", but it entailed gxea t di fficulties a.;-id dangers of a. political n ture. The numbers involved
•ere so
~3~
great that euch a course meant postponing any large movements for perhaps two years, aid. the position of the Greeks who were waiting to recover the value of their property on Turkish soil would he an impossible one. Further after two years it might bo very difficult to insist on the emigration of the Turks nor in Greece. Another point as that the latter were not cultivating their land, owing to the uncertainty ox the position, and this would produce a danger ox famine next year.
Sir A. SALTER said that he had urged on the Emigration Commission the vital necessity of making their valuation on general lines and establishing in the presence of the orner only the question of title, and not the question of value. He thought perliaos that il. liorgentheu would be able to do something to help. In the meanwhile he would see Mr. Campbell in London, and consider whether it would be advisable for him to go out and. do the preliminary work necessary to get the Settlement Commission functioning.
7.	Sir Herbert AMES said that last February Directors had
been asked to make all possible économie S 1Ï1 view of the financial situation. That situation had. no- changed and "7as even embarrassingly good. The question therefore arose whether it would not be .aise to get done during the next throe months as much necessary work as could be done and paid for during that tine. The estimates for next year had boon much cut down and if there ''ere anything that had to be done either this year or next, there might be great advantage in doing it , and paying for it out of the economies so far realise- I
non:
_ A--
reaiised on the 19 23 Budget
answer to a q.
01on he said
that all work, actually done up to the ¿1st December could be paid ior, even if the bills were not received until the Hew Year, but this could only be done up to the 15th February. In the case of continuing contracts a progress report might be submitted and payment on account made, for work, done up till the hist December; but such payments were strictly limited to the worn which had actually been done uy that date and co uld no t b e mad e i u a.n t ic i pa t i on .
hr. SeDBTSEl asked that the various pamphlets on different aspects of the work of the League, which were being prepared by the Sections, should be expedited as much as possible, so that their cos': could be met out of the 1925 Budget .
The 3CCHETAHT-GErZIAL drew attention to other lines in which it might be advantageous to get through the worn in 1925, o .g:. the final printing ox ..s scrub iy Records ; record of the Obscene Publications Confer .nee; Customs Conference; Transit Conference, etc., and possibly even some Committee meetings whose dates were not yet fixed. He asked all Sections to consider the mat ter v; i tn great care.
8.	Dr. BAJGHluAN said the Ins ti tut dT Hygiene Publique would meet ne-'-t wsex. inore seemed no douot ^wat xt would accep u the scheme for the Permanent Health Organisation, of which the united States Government had already declared its approval. It would then have to elect ten members Health Commit toe.
ox the
-5
Commander JACKMAN said the draft Treaty of Mutual Assistance was now being sent to Governments lor their observations *
10.	There would be a meeting on January list ox naval enperts of all countries concerned to consider the e;:tension of the principles of the Washington Naval Treaty to all countries possessing capital ships. Invitations were, in accordance with the decision of the Council and of the
P. A. C., being sent to these States, which included Russia and Turkey. This meeting of enpe.rts was, of course, preliminary to the general Conference, which would include all members of the league and, no doubt, non-Members also.
Dr. Van EiXSl said he hoped the intention to hold bhe meeting would be announced as soon as possible in bhe press, since at present the Dutch authorities were planning to embark un an increased noval programme. 11
11.	Mr, GILCHRIST said he had just returned irom the Saar Basin. He had seen the arrangements made by the Plebiscite
Commissioner, which seemed bo aim thoroughly satisfactory. In conversations with Mr. Rault and members of the Governing Commission, he had learnt that they considered the general situation satisfactory, bub were e::eraised by bhe prospects of a serious deficit in K.e Budget for the first time, due, in large measure, to the strine ; and also by the oustruct-ivo action of the Advisory Committee.
12.	Mr. S,,'SITS Eli said that the Assembly number of line Monthly Summary was now ready.
b
lo • -I-*- • AeHillDmS said oiie COiii*G . oain ¡mm b on _io v jiUiJ'jr 12t-h. to consider ijiio Jaworsinx uoeGion. Tug relative aosoior no i ,yy t con ag us , anx xn a uu.ox doeu.x^wus . ore av.aiteS xrom due- Anbas smdo re-1 Conference . Tint; same applied to the -guest ion ox u.emol.
On chin ». u.b jbc t, uix e O -.	j.1 _„v-if briei
oublinea uhe euestion oexom Lug Council, m 1 eiupmsisocL the great importance oi Luo Council treating Clio whole
ma t tor in an objective it bo be said that it pinsare oh libhuania Powers ropresenbed on
way	and no G c	iving/proand	lOx
.:as i	amply an	instrument io	x brin, irs:
.j o3 o :n	5 Ci 0 0 b u i_0	hi U o 1 fc 1 C nT0 0 "_L	tliO
the ambassadors’ Coni'ereneo .
14. Sir Herb orb ALiES said that the auditor insisted tna t the Internal Control Oiiioor should cerbiiy the payment oi salaries as well as other payments. Tor this reason, it would be necessary to submit a form for IIroe tors to fill in encii month.
It was agreed, after discussion, that tnis form could only register chat the lirsc tors certified bunt the persons mentioned on it had. been xor ;im in bueir Sections during the past month, or, if absent, had bo<-n so under conditions which entitled tuem to payment oi salaiy.
Sir Herbert Ames underboom to drait the form accordingly, and emphasised tne necessity Ghat in che case of a Director be in,., absent, some member of his Section should be authorised go sign on his behalf.
Directors1 Lieeting 97
Q 9.
O
LSAGGM OP IT AT IONS .
Distribu.ted to Undersecretaries General and Directors«,
DIR2CTORS' ¡.ZDTEG. Wednesday, October 51st, 19£b.
Present:- Monsieur Avenol.
Dr, Nitobe,
Professor Attolico.
Sir Herbert Ames»
Sir Arthur Salter.
Dr. Van Hamel.
Monsieur Comert.
Monsieur Bappard«,
Dr, Norman White,
Iir. Gilchrist.
C omma nd e r -Ja c lonan „
Mr, Abraham.
Monsieur Homein,
Mr. Walters (Secretary).
I«.	M. AVENOL said that the principal event ox the last
week had been the Customs Conference, which he understood was going quite well.
2,	The Mem el question had not, he thought, been previously
discussed in any detail at the Directors' Meeting. The question had been referred by the four Principal Allied 'oarers to the Council under the second paragraph of Article 11 of the Covenant. The facts were, very briefly, these: The Principal Allied Powers held, under the Treaty of Versailles, the sovereignty of Memel, and it had been their intention to transfer that sovereignty in due course to Lithuania. Last January the Lithuaniens occupied Memel, and this stimulated the Conference of Ambassadors to more rapid decision. In February, they fined the conditions on which the sovereignty could be transferred to Lithuania, and these were accepted by the Lithuanian Government without reserve, but only in principle. A Convention was prepared for the carrying out of these
2
conditions, and this the Lithuaniens refused to acoep ground that certain of its Articles went "beyond the c they had acceptedo
t, on the onditions
In a strictly legal sense, the Lithuanians had no doubt violated the sovereignty of Ilemel, c.nd this was ground for the appeal under Article 11» It was lively, however, that discussion would be limited to those parts of tho Convention which are in dispute, and particularly those dealing with the questions of the control of the port and of communications of all sorts between Memel and Poland across Lithuanian territory*
3.	He, Sir Arthur Salter and LI. Stoppuni were going to Rudapesth on November 3rd, in connection with the Hungarian Loan question»
4.	At its first meeting in 1913, the Council drew up its list of Rapporteurs for the year. Some changes were inevitable in this list, and it must be drawn up afresh at the wecomber mooting. He ashed all Sections to send in to Ida .ior Buxton suggestions as to
Rapporteurs for their particular questions.
5.	The definite fixing of dates of Council Meetings made it
possible for the various Commissions to some extent to fix their meetings also in advance. He asked ail Sections concerned to consider this point and submit a programme of dates for the year 1924 SIR ARTHUR SALTER said there was great advantage in fixing the dates. The Financial Commission would meet regularly just before the Council.
6,	PROFESSOR ATTOLICO said he was going to Rome the following day to meet the Secretary-General.
7.	IT.RAPPARD referred briefly to the question of zones. There were two possible eventualities which would do the League much harm in Switzerland.
The first, if negotiations wore not reopened, and, France
declining to go to the Court or the Council, the Federal Government
felt unable to appeal to the League.
Secondly, if Switzerland did appeal to the League, and
the Council urged the federal Government to resume negotistions ’¡-.ith it,nce, v.-itnout doing anything to prevent the latter ioih moving ner Customs lino before the negotiations aero concluded.
In the first case, people would any tint the league was ox no help to small countries: in the second case, that it s positively a mere assistance to the powerful countries.
Did. Y.-hT .Hff.Ikh pointed out that more optimistic alternatives
existed	, and the	t as res	vards the	f irst &1ternutive,	the choice
was in	the hands	■ of the	federal ■	government.	
1_.	_MPARD	agreed,	but sc id	tha t if the latter	did not
said as regards the Customs Coni erenec va s now that the Conference us doing
appeal to the longue, it would only be for fear of results which might make the relations bet’-een Switzerland and the noague very difficult.
HR. GrILCRR I SI1 said the-1 . ajor Stephens had now reached oaarbruck, after passing through leneva.
j . Co loan v/as now in Danzig on his way to ,ar saw to discuss Minority questions.
DIR ARTHUR S-the general feeling a good work and that it could be useful in an even vider field tntn its terms of reference covered. A further Cou. en nee might "possibly be suggested. lie thought that about half the countries represented would sign the convention, and that most cf the others would subsequently do so. The great Dovers would, so far as he could judge, sign at once.
In connection with this Corn erenee, he was led to poin ; out the difficulty o: giving adequate hospitality to the members of such numerous delegations. The chie;. delegates ; eve, of course, invited, to luncheon, etc., but this was not enough, nor did it meet the difficulty o- the more junior members. he thought the .eague would get much better v lue for its money if it were possible to nay out of the üntert&inmont fund a
-A „
bug sidy to the lad xij ticnal Club, in return for which all members of such delegations could to allowed to be members of the
the conference,
Club for the period o:
HTTOLICO said the point would be considered.
• *s regards the Hungarian loan, two stages were now passed, viz, the Council He solution and the a rations Commission's Resolution. He ha: been last week to London, where he had found those concerned very friendly to the idea, but the question of raising money was far from being an easy one.	The
finance Committee was meeting in London on November 20th, and in Geneva during the Council fleeting on December 10th.
The Greek Loan question us going well. Mr. Mcrgenthau vis now in ~ondon. He would see him in Paris op friday, and
he would be in Geneva next Tuesday. The first million pounds for refugees settlement would be made available next month.
The arrangements for the new Danzig currency were satisfyctory and the necessary money had been secured.
The question of financial assistance to Albania was making
no progress.
,,s regards Austria, the result of the elections would be to make matters much more secure, so far as the League's work was concerned, and to give the Commissioner a somewhat freer hand to express his views.
315 HUES-;f:f AMES referred to tiie c.ue stion discussed at the last meeting (Ho. 14 of Directors' Lie e ting Bo. 96). xe read a draft formula, which was approved by a number of those pre sent.
ft was decided that, in the light of the agreement reached on the general point, the final form should be drafted in agreement by fir ...erbert .-.mes and Professor Attolico.
5-
^6. rinmiT1 apilor JACI2L'J:T said that the invitations had now , one oiit for the January meeting of naval experts.
hr. van HAHE1 said that the invitation had reached the hatch government just at the most critical moment of the recent debate, and had contributed to the crisis in the course of which the hutch
government had resigned,
17. hr. Borman hill 111 said that hr. Baje liman v/as now in laris, where the elections to the Health Committee were taking place.
3.8. As regards the work of the Section, he had been working on his report on the Bar East tour, in which he had had the help of Din Iieise and hr, de Vogel, whose great expo reine e in the Philippine and Java, respectively, would add immensely to the value of the repo Their presence was without any cost to the league.
19.	The medical officers now doing an exchange course in the United States would be back in Europe on about December 16th, a nd would he thought, have a meeting bore between Christmans and the blew Year,
20.	M. COMEBT said that an arrangement had now been made with a Brench wireless company, unde., which the latter would send out up to a thousand words per month of league communiques free of charge. Their station was one of the most powerful in the world. Tho Swiss government had also permitted that these com uniques should be transmitted through the Swiss Post Office without cost to tho league
Eis Section was seriously considering what arrangements might be made for broad-casting league information.
21.	He drew the attention of the meeting to the importance of the fortnightly calendar of forthcoming meetings. This calendar, as at present produced, was very inadequate, and the fault lay mainly with the different Sections, who ought to make a practice of informing
tlio Este-olishment Office ¿"tí soon ¿-s any meeting which concerned had been fined.
O O
í-j Cj a
OÖL
Eg proposed to arrange	*r Vi a. • U J.— Cv	t ono member	of t	he I forma.ti on
should bo art acred to e	acli	Section and	m o H o	ely follow its
be primarily responsih	le	fer publicity	con	coming that wor
Ee asked that all Sections would do all that was in their power to assist tlio member of the Information Section told off to c oils ho rat , with them,
S3.
Eg drew attention to the necessity for hast in preparing tin
League documents, and in x.e,rticu
interest, as	being
of the League	and
different pamphlets on various aspects of league work, in view of the fact that the financial side of the matter was nucí easier between now and January 1st than it would be afterward a,
24.	Ee had received a request from the Under Secretary of State for foreign Affairs in the Turkish Government for copies of all
of the assembly discussions concerning the admission of Abyssinia. Shis was, he thought, cf
ign of the interest felt «t Angora in the wof nd p Cv A b u.C rly in the question of the admission of
new otate So
25.	If. hOduld ¿aid that Colonel Ilian had gone to Constantinople to seo M, Picard, who had recently been appointed by the Council, under the terms of Article 10V of the frectp of Lausenno, to enplair. to him the work and methods of the league, particularly in matters of transit,
26.	It would bo remembered that the Committee of 3 enperts, which had considered the suggestion made by Italy that the league should take up the question of a Convention about Radio telegraphy, had decided to wait and sec tho rcsuit of the tentativo suggestions for a Conference which had boon made by tho french Government. As these appeared to have produced no result, the 3 evperts ’were shortly
going to meet agcIn.
-7-
27.	There ic.s one point of i torost in regard to tho Transit
Conferenoe v/liioh wos to open on ITovembor ISth. The Soviet Delegs tic.-
to the liailv/ay Commission in Paris had protected a.gainst
n o t
be inf; invited to the Conference, end declared that her refusal to collaborate v;ith the Transit Commission in connection with the Genoa decisions was due to this foot. In the circumstances, it was suggested that the President of the Transit Committee should write to the President of the Council, explaining certain oonsiderati«ns which had arisen since the Council toon its decision, and ashing whether the Council would, in the circumstances, wis.. to reconsider the matter.
E8. Dkw van IhhiEIi said the t the Jurists Commit tee had been convoked to meet on llovember 2Cth, probably* L t Geneva.
29.	Dr. KIT QBE said lie had heard that the Japanese Government
had very deeply appreciated the action of tho Assembly in spout one our. ly offering a reduction of tho Japanese contribution for the year 1924. The economic results of the disaster jero not, in fact, such cl to make it impossible for the Government $o pay its contribution, and it would not have requested any reduction. Aj.1 the more did it appreciate the sponteous action of the Assembly.
20.' Ho proposed that there should not be c Directors1 Meeting tire following week, unless any Section wished to have one.
LEAGPE OP NATIONS.
Distributed to Under-	Directors Meeting 98.
Sccretarieg Donoral aij'i T)i~cb c c o r s,
DIRECTORST ?ir:TI'TG.
We on eg day, November 14th, 19g3c
PRESENT
Secretary-General,
Professor Attolico,
Dr, Hitoto .
Sir Herbert Ames =
Dr, Rajchman .
M. Comcrt.
Me Co 11 an .•
Dr0 Yan Hamel.
M. MantonXc Id. Rappard .
Dame Rachel Crowdy,
Mo Madariaga.
M0 Dnfour.
Mo Donnet .
Oolone" Kium.o
Mr. Walters	(Secretary) . I.
I. TEE S3 ORE TARY - GENERA L gave a brief account of the recent journey of himself and othnr members of the Secretariat in Roumani They had been most hospitably treated. There, as in other countri of Central and Eastern Europe, he felt the League was looked on as something that could really help to consolidate and protect the country.
The previous visit of M. Colban had been much appreciated, and the Government was anxious that he should go back in the spring. Some of the minority representatives had felt that the delegation had not got sufficiently into touch with them, He thought, however, they now were more ready to realise what the roal scope of the visit had been, and also that it was not the last oneo
Roumania..
t* M i>?
Bourn onia v/os dosooratcly anxious for peace.
She was preoccupied at the moment with an economic crisis, and desired the help of foreign capital«
It was proposed to start u Loummian League of nations Union, which was supported by II. Due a.
In Hungary, the general situation was very
diff e	^ront»	Hero was a country which	had boon	V O T 7
hard	hit as	a result of losing the v>	• r . Thor.	■ was
very	3trong	reeling about minorities	question?	i,: an. d
it was not realised that the problem of Hungarian minorities was not one merely to be dealt with by the Hun gar i an Gov c mm on 10
He had explained that his visit was not in connection with the lean, and that HLI. Avonol, Salter and Stoppani would be coming immediately for the purpose of compiling information.
The Prime ¡sinister struck hi i as u most reasonable man, who understood the necessity of peace and of convincing Hungary1s neighbours that she intended to keep peace« Hu had explained that Hungarian opinion was very sensitive as to the degree both of political ■and of financial control which should r ccompany the Loan® Wo should remember that Hungarians wore very sensitive to matters of form, and that it was very important to find forms which would be satisfactory to them«
3,		Tn	c. o* C'	one:	ru	1 impr	• r* - ■ V i	si on	all over	that	pa a	t of
	Europe		wo s	til	at	the o	ot	tlomo	n t ul j] i. c	Grc r	rn	ones
	is	O Q Q . 0 WQOV	nti	- »1 "... X	to	all t:	he	o the	r countri	•1 ?	and	that
	pi'	osparity		an		peace ;	ur	c all	ko impose	ibis	s 0	long
the reparations quos bion hangs like a nightmare over the world.
4u	In I;one ho had boon received with the greatest
kindness * On the first day, he had had a very long and
•3
anl satisfactory talk with Senator Contarini. who ho hoped would come to Gene va during the Council mooting, lie thoroughly understood the league, and appreciated the fact that the League could he of service to Italy.
-Pr'-rt	0IX X* 3 X n	in turn, holpin	g the	3 League
4-1-, n Oil ^	n -r 1 ■ f\ !•> o (1 U»	*ry ■ - >*. "■ J- 1	r 1ong conversu	lion	wx on o--.
soli	.11 . y.'ij.'«. C-ln WC	is also,, ho thou	she	vexy sa
tisiacuoryo
Signor Mussolini said chat, in hi a view, tho position cf Italy in tho League was not equal to that of Franco or of Great Sritain, and that this must be remedied „
If this could ho clone, tho S e era tary *~G on oral believed that Signor Mussolini might hocone one of the greatest and most zealous supporters of tho League, If. therefore, any development an this direction could take place, wo should do all that was possible to got It realised in
1 UJ, ±-J a
hdl 0 HCn.u ¿La¿7 j Cfii tain Government organs published
attacks on tho	League, and	ho	had mad	e a very careful
statomont to tl	:c Press on	the	sub jock	ox his conversation
with the Prime	Minister a	On	the foil	owing day, tho Press
was very	mu on le ss	Vi *1 ilvJC. 0	Ho	would
ment to I	hi roc tors,	and hoped	tha	t tho
rood it,.	as it Lad	been draf	tod	vi th
In the Press reports on tho subject, much too much emphasis had been laid on the question of representation in tho Secretariat6 This had already given rise to a letter from one Member of the League, which considered itself in-
importance to take
ca
ly represented		' \T C1	oti
•f - Vi»i 4* A 4- bi vi l> -L J	was of	ri c nr u vJ J- -	tic
every p	o ss ib lo	ca s o	to
. represented a		t pros	.' rj '
new posts, tie a;r;..oaled to Directors to carry out this policy to the utmost of their ability.
5.	As regards the Council LAeting on December 10th- he had
no information as to whether the British Government crisis would lead to a change in the British Representative or to a renue't for postponement.
A discussion followed on the point whether it. would
be better that the Council should be postponed or its. in tained ,
In favour of maintenance, it was urged, on general grounds,
that great advantage had been expected from the definite
fixing of the date, and that it would be a deplorable precedent
for the very country which had first made the suggestion to
be the first to ash for postponement; and in particular the
following Sections felt that their cork would be easier
if the Council were hold in December:-
Mandates
Disarmamont
Opium
Finaneial Adminis tration
Political
He al th
In favour of postponement, it was pointed out that the Council in January would be that elected by the Assembly, which would be most desirable: that the Council, in settling fixed dates, and made a reservation for exceptional circumstano and the fact of there being no permanent Government in the country of one of the Members, might be held to constitute such circumstances. In particular, also, the work on the questions submitted to the Jurists1 Committee and still mere on the Hungarian Loan, could hardly be complete by December lCth, and it would therefore, really be a gain of time in these matters to meet in January.
PRO^BSIOR ATTOLIGO said that for his work it would bo of groat advantage to postpone the meeting.
6.	PRO?333QR ; fWjl.TOO said Lidt tho situation in It ly vis^a-vis the League, had reached an absolute crisis before the Secretary-General1 s visit, and he congratulated him on the excellent effect of his work there„
7.	M. MAHTOIJX said he hod little to odd to what the Secretary-General had said with regard to Houmnnia and Hungary. The latter, it should be remembered, was s till tm aristocratic Govern rent,
in which the political salon had much influence, Jrrodontism. was still strong, as were also feelings about the Hungarian minorities, on which he had had a conversation with Count Eanffy,
It was this feeling in Hungary which led to tho doubts felt in Belgrade regarding the Loan. MIL Nintchitch and Pashitch had both told him there $b«.t they could only liberate from, reparations claims the first tranche of the Loan up to 50,000 Gold francs.
They had spoken also ox negotiations with Italy regarding the Adriatic« Both hope 1 that r. direct settlement could be reached but both expressed the intention of annealing to the League if all else failed. He had had many other conversations in Belgrade and thought his visit there had been valuable in confirming contracts nrovxously made«
8.	On the question of Memel, he thought that, with good-will the problem could be solved. The convention had a number of minor points which required amendment, but if these were put right, a settlement might be readied, on condition that the Lithuanians did not insist on assorting that they wore in a state of war with Poland, and could not. therefore,.
o—
therefore, apply the convention as far as that country y;es
concerned.
9 » Kr.IvAPPARD asked whether there was any objection to members of the Secretariat speaking on their particular subjects at the University of Genova. THB SECRET/.RY-GglhffR/L replied in the negative.
10« Eo drew attention to the references to mandates in the summary of the proceedings of the Imperial Conference, and particularly to the passage about the status of non-rativc-
inhabitants*
11a On the question of zones, it seemed that the French Government was now ready to accept the original Swiss propose1, and submit the question to arbitration. It might still come before the League If the two parties were unable to agree on the exact matter for submission to the arbitrator,
12c	S15 EUR BEE T AMES. congratulated all Sections on having
kept within the limits of their budgets in 1922.
THE SECESTiiP-Y-GSIEEaL suggested that a monthly statement-should be circulated to the Sections giving information to each not only of its own but of all other Sections positions with regard to their respective budgets. He had seen this system in use in the Italian Treasury, end had been much impressed by it.
SIR HERBERT AMES said there would be no difficulty in doing this.
13.	GQLOFEL HI All said he was just back from Constantinople-, Apart from the technical work he had be-n doing, he thought the Directors might he interest ed in one particular impression,. He ha'-
-7-
found the foreign -rs in Constantinople, without exception, very "bitter about the Treaty of Lausanne, and believed that it would only bo a question ûf a short time before the League begins getting ooir.pla.inta on minorities questions.
lip, II, DU?Pin mentioned Mr, liorgenthauTs passage through Geneva, Ee had shewn the greatest energy in seeing people, even in the small hours of the morning, and had made an admirable impression, He mentione i that Ur, Morgenthnu had state 1 that he would make no claim on the funds at the service of the Commission, either for salary or for en terta in&Bgt expenses, although the latter might perhaps be not inconsiderable.
15n I\h CCMEET displayed the first pamphlet published by the Information Section, which dealt with '-.he Permanent Cpurt, These pamphlets were being edited by Mr, Cummings, who had a number nearly ready to go out.
Id, M, MADARIAGA, referring to the Secretary-General18 conversation with Signor Mussolini, called attention to the danger of emphasising too much the difference between the great Powers and others, so far as the league was concerned. Enemies of the League, including II, 1, ’Tells, who was much road in Spain, attacked it on the ground that i o was the instrument of the great Powers, This was one danger, and, secondly, it should not bo forgotten that there were many Powers, not in the category of great, which, nevortheles s, were far from, being small Powers,
He referred to tho composition of the party which accompanied the Secretary-General as open to criticism in this connection.
In
I
-8~
17»	In Spain ho had soon some of tho now members of the
Government, including Admiral Ivlegaz , Vice-Chairman of tie Directorate. Ho had boon assured that the . ustrian Loan would be completed during December, and an Tconomic Treaty with Austria during Jo nu.aryc
18c	DALIF 5 ACE EL CHOPPY mentioned that she had be u invited
to tour in tho United St ,tos in April, all expenses being provided <_
19« II. OCLMIv said ho had found in Norway and Sweden little hostility to the League, but also no interest whatever in it« Thus it was easy for the few who wore hostile, to attack it« Ho thought it was important that visits should bo made to Christiania and Stockholm before tho votes on tho budget were taken in the spring,,
20«	At Danzig, whore he had spent a week, he had seen
a great many people and had very many discussions, His fooling was that, while he had, for the moment, come through the- crisis of last July, there were always new ouestions arising, and these might, in their turn, become critical at any moment. It might
bo necessary for tho Council to adopt a policy of quicker decisions in the future, instead of its past policy of always insisting on agreed settlements, so far as possible«
El,	Ee then wont to T”arsaw, where a change of Government
had taken place two days previously, LA Aorfanty had become Finance Minister, and was anxious that Poland should be relieved of her present pro-occupations a.s regards minorities. M, Seyda, assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs, shewed the greatest understanding and g^od-vill, and many of tho points which would have to be settled at the Council
r
22
2 3,
24,
n', ting îv-d ulrcudy I»cleared up in their convorsa-tionr-3 „ Ho hud /ritten ashing that, if poo iblc, certain o th rs should "be, el-r are d before ho left to see the Oouno:_.,'r Pi upper tour v~ the subject.
.■.c: i . g .reis Upper Sil si a, II. Culondor cnee to Jursuw
and
grccraont w
iü
reached between hia .and tie
Polish -authorities, with which ho had boon satisfied.
Uln L-iJCIh'.'.iy also gave his impressions of the situation in v/arsw. Poland was facing an exceptionally p-avo financial
Ci Xsx£
rr.r!
1 questions of foreign policy retired to the back.
ground. Even the Gorman situation, and the fact that the Bolsheviks had throe boparat. concentrations on the Polish frontier, did not occupy very fully the minds of the political
leaderso The latter fact '.o s considered to bo connected with the negotiations now going on for a transit agreement for Eusso-G-: v. n traffic, and nr ant to induce Poland to make cor: cos r. ions . The Government, tlxough very nationalist, v/as exceedingly unxi ous for peace. Eo believed that Hr * Hilton Young had gone back to England, leaving Hr. Nixon in charge of the E inane in 1 Hi ss ion .
The Of-'ico International had adopted the ache mo for the Permanent Health Organisation, and elected 10 members of tho n tand ing G ommittoo .
The .oncer Gub-Goanitlx: o	the Health Cemnittoe had
then met. Its work was exceedingly technical.
din oEGI.'"fhi Y-jEIT.HAL said that in all that had boon
SUXd
m had tlu fooling that the situation of Germany v/a the demiev-tinq factor in everything. The economic crisis in Pol..r.l; the financial difficulties of Koumcnia; the or., eh - _n 3candin/ vian c aun til en;
-20-
o oxin trie a;	all had their roots in this«
that he thought the moment coro to try uni seer through the Teneue. The United Otates, Bolgiun
fX [1 d.	Italy	had all	trie l in th	e In rt weeks	t'
on	the ro	ad of ugr	e^rent, and had failed;		* 3 H a*, u - L
wrioi	t more	co i:ld h e	dono than	continue to i	- vuit
Gorrany, starvation 'vas beginning to he felt, ? districts could not he induces to sell an 1 wet-r o J u c t an t bo c u 11 iva te ,
One remark rale to hire hy Signor Mussolini
thought, a real	uns ers	tending of	the Lea-rue, I
was irr.po msiblc	for the	noague to	live merely a.'
doing statistic	al work	, settling	small di ?putec
It must either	grow or	die,	
s did not mean :ro a settlement :, Great Britain .ko a step forward, he did not know events r- In mi the country 5 hecoring
shewed, he t was, that it
an office,
, and so on.
nistrjjbuted to Under-Se“cYe t sries-General ^ Sn'd Directors . ~
IdM GUS OF___1U TI OKS.
Directors Meeting 99
DI-
TODS ! MEETING.
Wednesday, 1Toy ember Sis t, 19 S3.
Present:- Secretary-General.
Professor Attolico .
Dr. Nitobe.
Sir Herbert Ames.
M. Rappard.
Dr. Van Hamel.
1\I. Madariaga.
Mr. Cummings.
Dr. Ho rman Whi t e.
Dame Rachel Crowdy.
Mr. Love day.
Major Abraham.
Mr. Gilchrist,
M. Bonnet.
Mr. Walters (Secretary)
1. TEE SECRETARY-GENERAL said that now that lord Robert Cecil had accepted a Peerage, and was, therefore, not compelled to undergo an electoral campaign, there seemed no reason to expect that the British Government would ask for the Council to be postponed.
It had, on the other hand, asked for the postponement of the Jurists1 Committee till January. lie thought there was no objection to this, seeing that in any case the Committee oould onl report at the time when the Council was meeting, and that the Council Members would, therefore, be almost certainly compelled to ask for an adjournment till the March meetina in order to ascertain the views of their Governments.
-2-
2.	No events of vreat importance had happened, since tie lost meeting. An appeal had been received fror. the Tui'kish Government re merlins the Greek treatment of the Mussulman population of Greece, and asking that the Council be seized
of the matter. This letter was being circulated, and he had ashed tie President to give his opinion as to whether the question should be placed on the agenda. His own view was v at it should be so placed, particularly seeing that the Turkish Government spoke of the circumstances it alleged as causing e threat to peace. Perhaps some Member of the Council might settle the point by asking, on its own initiative, tr t this should be done. A protest had subsequently been received from the Greek Government.
3.	A discussion followed as to the list of Council Eapoo rt eu rs ior 19 j4.
If was decided that the Secretary-General should circulate the list of subjects, asking the Sections concerned to make their proposals as regards their own subjects.
4.	PEOFBSSOH ATT0LICO suggested that i t might be useful if the Directors 1 lieeting were to go through each Council agenda when it WiR settled, the various Directors explaining their respective questions - not only the 1 ¡.rge questions but Iso sm:.ll ones.
TKw SUCRAT:. Y-Gr.IT'k'L and others present strongly supported this suggestion. It was decide' t' the agenda for the December Council should, so f ,.r as possible, be gone through in the following week, the more contentious questions remaining over until the week before the meeting, in order to enable the Secretary-General to be present.
5.	Mr. CUMMINGS laid on the table the second pamphlet of the Information Section series, dealing with Austria. He hoped to have 13 pamphlets ready by the end of December.
-3-
In ro It to Ivl~ EAPP1TP, ho g^id th?t the nuegtion of trail.-’1 tion into languages other than the two official ones was more a question of what it va-g practically possible to do in the time, thn.n one on which a reasoned plan had been drawn up.
LI. Popuord thought it ^es very i portent to arrange a general plan taking all the considerations into account.
PROFESSOR ATTOIICO suggested that a note should be circ . lv. ted to Directors giving the whole plan as at present drawn up, and asking for their observations.
6.	SIR EFP.HEET _£MTS_ referred to the previous decision with regard to the circulation of monthly statements. In reply to the Secretary-Goner J’s request, he said that there would he no difficulty in circulating to all Sections a document which give a summarised statement of the Budget position of e!-’ch Section, To individual Sections he would continue to send a detailed statement shewing how they stood with regard to each separate item of their particular hudget.
LEAGUE LE F ALIGNS
ntribu_ted_ to Under-■ tari 98 -General
y- ^ j) X X* O C t	c
Directors î lee tir g No *100,
DILEC LOFS ‘ MEETIÏÏ
Wedne_sday, ITovombc r 28th . 1923.
Present :-
Professer Aittolico Sir Herbert Ame s* Mr* GoIban.
Dr, Van Hamel*
H» Comerte
Dr
Norm?
.■/hi te
M» Eappard•
M. Mantoux»
Dame F cohe1 Crowdy H» Bonnet.
Mr. Loveday.
M. Madariaga.
Mr Air o cha M. Horada,
M. Bruccoleri.

F OSES S GE AríTOXICO referred to the proposal that the
2 .
Council Meeting should be held in Paris« Prom an administrative point of view, although he would not say anything was impossible, it was, of course, extremely inconvenient, and involved a good deal of expense«
The meeting then proceeded to go through the items on the agenda of the Council. Th.e following notes deal only with points of a non-confidential nature, which are not to be found in the
documents circulated, or drafted, on the different questions:
Guesting l; Traffic in Vi omen and Children. Following a comment by M, FJ-PPAF.D on the danger of overdoing the policy of passing questions from owe Committee to or other, and then back to the Council., it was agreed that there would be advantage in the Council authorising tie Mandates Commission to communicate
on the subject of the
directly with the Mandatory Powers ratification of the 1921 Convention on Traffic in Children on behalf of mandated territories*
v/omen and
Question 2:	PR * I-iOIM.IAIT vE. I IS mentioned that Dr* Madsen, who,
under the AssemblyTs decision, was to advise the Council on the appointment of six members of the standing Health Committee, had said that he could not come to the Council Meeting* I)r« Baj oilman was going to Copenhagen to see him, and would be back in Geneva on Monday morning*
Quest-ion 5:	EE- YAP HAHCL drew attention to the desirability,
in connection with the 0 pi tun Conferences next year, of marking the special position in this subject held by the Dutch Government which before the league took over the question had been specially charged with work arising out of the 1912 Convention*
M* RAPPAE'-D supported this point of view, vhieh he thought was of importance in connection with the possibility of similar
transfers in the futurec
HE«, LOtEDAY observed that during the war much information had been acquired on the question cf rationing, and that the knowledge and services of tío people who had been experts on the subject at the end of the war might prove very valuable in connection with the possibility of rationing dangerous drugs, which, no doubt, the Conference would consider*
Questions 4,, 5 and G were explained by Qu BAPPikD,HIPADA and lOYBDAYk
Question 8: In connection with and the possibility of replacing PP- OFBS SOP. A T TO TIC 0 oboe r v ed th a t
the Disarmament resolutions, the Convention of St» Germain the question vr-s really very
»
3
simple ; If America r.s ready to r>i?\y the game rosu3 to would certainly follow. If not, no reonIts were possible.
BF.o VAIT HAMEL asked to whet extent the Convention of St. Germain would he used in preparing the new ConTontior• He pointed out that the former was actually in force between a certain number of States, though those v/ere not important ones from that particular point of view
Question 9:	HR. G 01 BAH explained the Council’s position vis-
a-vis Lithuania. The obligation on Lithuania - which had premised, at the moment of admission to the League, to conclude an agreement-with the Council in regard to minorities - was not a Juridical one, based on Article 1 of the Covenant, but a "dentlemon1 s Agreement", the other Members of the League having, in fact, given their votes on the strength of the Lithuanian promise. It was, in this sense, a fully binding obligation .
Question 10:	ML., 10 YEP AY suggested that, in so far as the report
presented for the Council’s consideration dealt with the financial arrangements of the mandate territories, it might bo useful to compare the model budget, which was circulated to the Governments in order to secure information for the Monthly Bulletin.
Questions 11 and 12; HE. C0LI3AH explained the situation regarding these questions, which needed, he said, most careful and tactful handling. Luring the first two or three days of the Council, the greatest possible amount cf preliminary consideration should bo given to then. Ike first specially affected the interests of German-', The second was a question to be settled between Poland and the Cour.oil.
Quest ions 14 and 15 wore explained by H. ILAfellX. L further
question \h ich might have come or the agenda was that dealt with in
- 4c-
the appeal from the Turkish Government. In view of the later telegram from the Commission on Exchange of Populations, it was j. however, likely that this question would not he formally on the agenda»
Question 16. MR ^ OOLBAIT hoped that the Council would ho able to roach unanimity regarding the successor to H. hloltke-Huitfeldt and the nomination of the local member, On the latter point the British Government had circulated a note» If there were unanimity, nc postponement would ho necessary» The questions in any case were such as to preclude cl Expression of opinion by the Secrotnri rt. 'There was a further Saar question, namely, the Picketing Decree of Iiay 2nd, which the British Government had asked should be placed on the agenda. That Government would, no doubt, explain its point of view at the. meeting.
Question 17:	One new question should, he added - that of the
depot for war material in transit through Danzig for Poland. 'This was a question which had caused political differences in the past} it should' now he treated purely as a technical one.
Further, the High Commissioner desired to draw the attention of the Council to the increase in the cost of living for himself and staffo The H.C. had a very large official residence, which was a burden rather than a help.
Question 18: KFl» LOVED AY said that, so far as he knew, there was no question to bo dealt with in the Finance Commitee5s report, save that- of Hungary (Question 20) .
Question 21; There would bo a report from Lord Buxton, President of the Conference. It had not yet been received. The Council must also decide to what countries it should send the Convention by way of inviting their signatures.
Question 22t
The question here was
similar to that immediately
preceding
5
Question 23:	Was left to the next meeting
Question 24
SIK HREBER0? AIES said that only the Secretar:
General could give information on this Question«.
A discussion foil owed on the question of the sending of substitutes for league Commissions. SIR III-jhIERT /siCBS pointed out the financial difficulties involved? and lip. c C Oil *■?! said that at any rate in the case of members of Commissions, non-native s in their personal capacity, the sending of substitute at all was a very doubtful procedure , and that in no case should two fares or double subsistence allowances bo paid«
34
IE AGUE 0? NATIONS
■Distributed t^ Under-	Directors Meeting 1010
r01 ar 1 cs~G e n o r a 1 "arid 5 x ro c t or s o
D'.Q}-? 0 TOES 1 MS2 TIN Or,
Wednoul ay, I)e comber 5th, 1925»
Present.
The Secro t ary-General..
IIo Avcnol,
Prof o ssor Attolico,
3 i r lie rb eft /..me s II, Oclbanj lie 0oner t,'
Mo Montoui;t
1 i T* 'T A M T-T ‘7rv1 o *1
±J l t> v Aj.a 17	¡m_.iL/	^
?r. ?. a j chnan , in '•!: , Bappard ,
M -» h a a s r M, Madariaga ,
Dame Buchol Crowdys M; Earada;
S i r Ar thur S a11 e r c
Mr , Wa Iters	(S c c re t a ry) .
L
2 .
3.
Idle SEGUETARY.-QSI'EBAL said that it was now certain that the Council would meet in Paris tut in what building .was not yet quite fined o
His visit to London red coincided with tho election campaign and ho hrd not toon abl- to s. o ? 11 those whom he would hare liked It was noticeable that all parties had out the league in the foro front of their election campaign. The fact that all the Dominion Premiers had declared that the league was for them the principal thing in foreign policy had immensely improved its position in outlie opinion and affected the attitude even of its previous opponents, such as the Morning Post.
Dr. van EAIEL asked whether it was right that a list of names of mentors of the Secretariat, with their nationality and salaries, should te putlisted in the Official Journal.
The SBCHETAKY^-SSNEEAL sail that this publication was ordered, by the Assembly although it w&s not quite so explicit as Dr« van Hanoi thought since it gave only the sum of salaries of groups of members of Sections, etc« and not each individual’s salary.
Professor AfTGXICO s;jid that in this matter the right tendency was one towards increased rather than reduced publicity«
II. CCLBAIT said tint ha hoped that the various questions on the Council Agenda for which his Section was responsible would all go well. The most important ones were those dealing with German colonists in Poland and the question of the acquisition of Polish nationality.
M. IIAKAB/x said that at the request of Belgium a new item had
been added to the Council Agenda, viz, the question of placing
under the league the International Association for Child Welfare, and Belgian
The British/ Governments had according to II. Hymans, now composed their differences on this question.
Sir Herbert Ai.ES submitted a new draft for the certificate discussed at previous meetings. This was finally accepted with a small change.
IE. 1IA1TT0UX said that wo were still without news of the Courtrs decision on Javorina. As regards Memel it was still not altogether clear «hat role the Principal Allied Powers had, in referring the matter to the Council, wished the Council to play.
Professor EAPPAED said that Hr. Branting had not yet sent in his P.eport to the Council on Slavery.
He hoped that if for any reason there were difficulties in the adoption by the Council of the whole of the Bran ting report-cn Mandates, at any rate all non-contentious., and particularly
3-
the administrative, parts would go through,
Mr, Hughes’ a recent speech and other indications showed how carefully the American Government was following the mandates quest! o. and how important it was for the League, in dealing with these matters, to take into consideration not only the Mandatory Powers hut the outside 'world.
The meeting then discussed, the revised list of Rapporteurs for Council questions.
The SRCRRTARY-GEIOR AL said that he vi shod to make some observations on a point which had teen causing him of late a great deal of anxiety, namely, the light in which members of the Secretariat should view their relations with their Governments,
Cases had occurred in which members of the Secretariat who thought they had sere grievance with regard to their own position,an had invoked the assistance either of their Government or of their national delegate to the Council or Assembly, Such action could only be harmful both from, the point of view of the Secretariat and from the point of view of the official concerned, since it showed that he did not think his case strong enough to carry conviction if put forward in the ordinary way. or else that he did not feel the Staff Regulations ensured justice»
Outside interference in administrative matters could nob be admitted.
Such personal matters were, however, of altogether minor importance« 'Yhat was much more important- was that there seemed to be growing up a tendency for members of the Secretariat to feel that they were here chiefly as agents of their Governments and to forget that their primary allegiance was to the Secretariat of which they were members * Certain Governments seemed sometimes to hold this -point of view, but he feared that it was now spreading to members of the Secretariat.
ïfoirbers of the Secretariat were oft~n oall-l upon to aot in nartiouln:
questions or in general as liaison officers between their Governments and itself. This was right and service rendered in this way was of great value, hut it was essential that all concerned should re':’ember that they must be agents of the League vis-a-vis their Governments and not agents of their Governments vis-a-vis the leagueP Ee begged Under Secretaries General and Directors ic make this matter clear to all those working under them, It was a matter of the utmost seriousness and one which might prove fatal to the Secretariate During the past four years the Secretariat had worked with real esprit de corps and he hod always followed the principle that so far as possible its members should have as much responsibility as possible and be free to do their work in the way that seemed to them best* Ho was sure that this was the best practice and hoped that it would he possible tc follow it.
Professer ATTOLICO said that he hoped the Secretary-General would take up this point individually with any members of the Secretariat to who:: he might ha referring.
Sir ARTHUR SALTER said he thought this matter was one of vital importance. It was very valuable that a member of the Secretariat should be so far as possible in the confidence of his Government and know its views and feelings, but he must use this knowledge not to further the policy of his Government but as a contribution cowards guiding the policy of the League in a way as far as possible to conciliate the various views and find a line of accommodation between conflicting policies0
M. AYEHOL said he strongly agreed. Members of the Secretariat should get information as tc the feelings and interests yf their Governments but they nrust remember that they owed dutj/
-o-
only to the collective organisations whose servants they were.
Any contrary polio:/ would ho absolutely fatal.
The SECRETARY GENERAL said in reference to Professor Attolioo's observations that he was not thinking of individuals tut rather of a trend of opinion; that opinion showed itself much more In the press and in Government circles than in the Secretariat., He was concerned to prevent it af dec ting the latte Mo COIvIERT said that it was perhaps natural that some members of the Secretariat who came from distant countries and had no particularly important work assigned to them in the Secretariat should develop such a view. Explanations of the importance of the question might be given to them by the circulation of the Minutes of the present meeting,
Professor RAPHARD thought that this point did not matter so much. The danger came rather from the higher functionaries particularly those from Powers such as Great Britain and France 9 These higher functionaries ought in his view to be especially careful not only ±.ot to serve in the course of their work the interests of their Governments - this could of course be taken for granted - but also not to express outside too strong opinions which might lead outsiders to fear that the Secretariat could he made the tool of national interestsP
Sii HERBERT AMES drew a distinction between the position of members of the Secretariat during working hours and outside the office when it was natural that they should play the role is a groat extent of links between the activities of the League and their fellow countrymen,,
Mo COLBAi'T said that the greatest safeguard against the development of the attitude referred to by the Secrotary-General was having a great deal cf work to do in the
Secretariat. He
thought all directors should take care that all the member s of their Section should follow as far as possible the general work of the League as well as that of their Section; this could
Uo done	'ifro	ugh section	mootings.	etc,; and in th	3 second	pl a c g
to see	that	all their s	taff were	fully occupied	and tha t	if not
occupie	d on	work for th	o Section	they should he	asked to	go
work on some general question. The policy of independence should not ho road to mean the policy of r o n-in terfor once*
FxOfoasor ATTOLIOC said that the liaison work of msmbers of
the Secretariat was cne of the r.oat difficult
i x
an 1	cne whoso difficulty	varied.	very m.uc	h in
The	national interests o	f Great,	Britain	and
mor e	Wita genera 1 isaguo	intoreE	its than	th 0 3
and liaison with them was accordingly Tory much. easier, Secondly in ihese two cases there wore many members of the Secretariat available for the work and ?i was both easier and more effective for four individuals to say a thing cnee than for one to say it four tlr:‘s, Those rarbors rust therefore ¿udge those who are loss fO'-'tunately ulacod with much loss severity than they should judge themselves-.
Sir Ilil'vp.T A!OS said that this liaison work might ho better dene if wo could menage to make better use of members of League Commissions and the like,,
33re Hi*JC5EMAN said there were two practical points! First to impress on all members of the Secretariat the existence cf a danger and remind thorn, of their in to rim bioual position*
ndiy to	hoar this poi:	at	in mind on
annoint	rent should he	m.a	a 0
M.. laid	TOLX called at	ton	tion to th
liaison	work not only	th	e national
>
v-7-
Put also those of other countries who dealt with work which affected its interests*
eyor e;

3 S'	1 d	h-'	mtir	el;
.. ■»., . X. his	ur	Bal	tor*	
o ."!	vi	sing	+ 1w f.i *J -x	Be
j. -7	H -	o po"	I hey	of
10 T	JO	■ ' r\ n	¡1 the	L
'■) 70	x	the	hi fr’n	,-r
All morters of the Secretariat
could he useful in n-1-rising the decretory General how to forward in their own country 1 r policy of the Lorgne end it was net their business to for r : d in the League the policy of their owr country* As. hows/or. the higher staff is rooosserily limite cl to a small number of countries,, decisions affecting any other
possible, he taken after
country should	al	way3, so far i
consultation vi	til	an official c
Ho CO LB All	male a réserva	
of course, alwa	ys	consult a soi
hr might
., hu	t in	tho	G c i 3 G	ÔX	a jun	ior	0	ff	icial
.o wi	sost	plan	to	lot	him s	o e	th		paper
hed	been	talc	o n an 1		then it.	a ke	8	ny	oh
f n -)	1 war	Y» n	q uir	o d o					
l~\ rr; "l j J' '	• > T ' A “	G~ ''	'T"~? t	T 3	o. i d h o	a g	r o	pa	wi th
s s or	At to	Hoc	o: --n	r*Tti.	11.7 as	r ,	go	r d	3 Cr
poli'	J • yf	O Li	uell	T7 p1	ore or	le	(•* « O O	o o H* o H*	
s alter the
policy of th Le?: gro and this made liaison work with the British Governs*. mt very easy	Ho naturally understood that
when in any country thor-o wore strong national parties holding anti^Ienguo views liaison work was of course much harder an d it might often ho unavoidable for those occupied on it ta express strongly the national point of view,
Ur, van HAMEL said that ho thought our particular difficulty arose from the fact that hero th .-re was no other side,
Thereo.
8-
aro few authorised representatives of Governments h-: r • and in a capital who to then: were r opr .sentativos of the members of the League cur work in this respect would bo much easier.
Sir ARTHUR SALTER said he wished to make one observation of a general character and that was that some danger may r nih for tho League from the fact that so many members of the Council were diplomats accredited to their Government. Eo
%
realised that the mere distant members cf the Council could hardly be represented otherwise than by one of their diplomatic representatives in Europe, tut at the present moment this was in almost every ease the Ambassador or Minister in Paris,
CONFIDENTIAL CIRCULAR
1923
nos 1-12
33
LEAGUE___OE___NATIONSc
]	Confidential Circular 1«
Genova,
March 20th, 1923.
ORGANISATION AND YORK 0? TEE SALES SECTION 0? TEE
PUBLICATION D: PAR THEN T,
1922c
Memorandum to____SIR HERBERT _AI£!3 _ .fi.om MR,. 3YLI0NS»
RGAFI.S ATI-ON,
General Salas Arrangements_
The Salo«J Soction was organised with a view to putting on a husines's basis the sale of the various documents of the league which are made public,
(i) To this end its first business was to establish agents in the most important countries, including practically the the whole cf Europe, America and the British Empire, who would receive stocks of the publications on sale, arrange the trade distribution of thorn in their respective countries, obtain subscriptions to the periodical documents, and also undertake a certain amount of publicity > These Agents, who are all reputable publishing houses, have been appointed after careful selection and enquiry, carried on in conjunction vvith well-informed members of the Secretariat of the nationality of the country concerned# At the end of 1922 the list of agents was as followsj-AUSTHALIA
Australasian Publishing 0o„, Ltd,,
229, Clarence Street, SYDNEY,
£Sub-Agents of - ns tables) ,
AUSTRIA and GERMANY
Rikola Yerlag A, G, , I'll, Radetrkyplatz, 0, VIENNAd
8>
BELGIUM
Librairie de la Lecture Universelle, 66, rue de la Montagne, BRÜSSELS„
CANADA»
William Tyrrell & 0oif Ltd.,
7-9, King Street, TORONTO»
(Sut-Agents of Constables),
0SECH0-SLOVAKIA
Librairie IK Topie, 11 Narodni, PRAGUE.
DEMARK
Vo Pios Boghandel - Povl Branner, 13,
Norregade, COPENHAGEN.
PRANCE
Imprimerie et Librairie Berger-levrauIt,
136, Boulevard St. Germain, PARIS.
GREAT BRITAIN,
DOMINIONS AM COLONIES, (exclusive of Canada)
Constable & Co,, Ltd., 10 and 12, Orange Street,
LONDON. V.C.Sc
GREECE
Eleftheroudakis & Barth, International Library, Place de la Constitution, ATHENS»
HUNGARY
Ferdinand pUtfifer (Zeidler Bros0,) Kossuth Lajes-Utca 7 S3., BUDAPEST, IV, KER»
INDIA
Oxford University Press, BOMBAY, MADRAS and CALCUTTA. (3ub~Agents of Constables)
ITALY
Libreria Fratolli Boooa,
Via Maroo Minghetti, 26-29, ROUE.
JAPAN
Maruzen Co,, Ltd. (Maruzen-KBbushiki-Kaisha), 11-16, Nihonbashi Tori-Sanohome, TCKI0»
LATVIA
A, GUlbis, publisher, Sou wore va cela, 14. RIGA»
NE 1.1 IRLANDS
Martinus Ni¿hoff, Bockhandelaar-Uitgever,
Lange Voorhout, 9, S1 GRÅV3NH/.GE
NORWAY
Olaf Norli, Universitetsgaten, 24,
CHR IS TI» .NIA
-3-
POIUO
Gebetimer I. Wolff, ulica Sionkiewoza 0,
(Zgeda IS) WARSAW<>
SP •. IN
Editorial "Saturnine Calle;‘a,T S, U ,
Oalle de Valencia, 26, MADRID.
S’TEDEN
0* E, Fritzo, Hcfbckhandel, Ffodsgaten, 2, STOCKHOLM«, S’-VIT^ERLAMD
Editions Fred. Boissannas, 4, Quai de la Poste,
GONEVlo
UNITED STATES
World Peace Foundation, 4C, Lit. Vernon Street,
Boston 9/ MASS«
(ii)	In the case of countried in which, Owing to the spall possibility of sales or to the prohibitive rates of exchange, no agent has been established, customers are supplied direct.
preliminary Prooe mre.
As saon as a document is ready, a request is piade to the Distribution Department to send a specified number of copies to the various agent3, who again put them into the hands of their subscribers and of booksellers, The quantity of copies sent is arrived at by a consideration of the demand in each countr;/ and the importance of each individual document.
The sale of the publications is enhanced by (l) newspaper advertising, the cost of which is met by an item in the publication Department budget, (2) the sending of copies of important documents to the Press for review and (3) the distribution of catalogues and circulars to libraries, universities, institutes and public and private individuals in the most important countries. Each agent Is supplied with copies of the catalogue, which is brought up to data as often as is necessary, for distribution in his area.
-4-
Agents^_ Terms.
The terms on vhich the agents obtain publications from, the League are, in all c^ses except that of Messrs. Constable & Co., on a basis of a discount of 40$ of the published price.
The arrangements with Messrs. Constable is that they shall hand over to the League the entire proceeds of all sales effected, less a commission of 15$*
These two apparently widely differing commissions (the 15$ allowel to constables and the 40$ allowed to. the other agents) actually amount to the same thing as far as the League is concerned, as the 15$ made to Constables is over and above the trade discount already allowed by them to their sub-agents. The reason for this special arrangement is that Constables are,, with the World Peace foundation, the League's be31 and most profitable agents, and the scheme gives them a freer hand, thereby making for increased sales.
All contracts with agents are for an indefinite period, terminable by at least 3ix months1 notice on either side. Accounts.
The bulk of the publications sent to the agents are "on depot", that is to say, the agents pay only for such copies as they sell, less their commission. Every document sent out^ whether actually sold or on depot, is invoiced end accounted systematically, and for this purpose the bookkeeping system usually employed by English publishing houses had been celled into use. The Sales Section can consequently tell at any moment the approximate quantity of any publication held by any agent, and the total sum of money for which the agent is resnonsible.
The prices of practically all documents are fixed in Swiss francs as a common standard, and the invoice prices are converted into the currency of their countries by the agents, at rates fixed in most cases by arrangement with the Sales Sectio In the case of two particular documents, (The MONTHLY SUMMARY and EPIDEMIOLOGICAL INTELLIGENCE) special prices are fixed for
1
-5-
each country, the object being to make the documents purchasable in countries whose currencies are depreciated, In such cases the copies supplied are invoiced direct in the currency of the country in question, the item being entered under separate accounts in our books„
Settlement of accounts with the agents takes place twice a year, after June 30th and after December 31st. Statements showing the total value of the publications despatched are got out and sent to each of the agents, who in their turn supply details of publications sold and remaining in stock. The3o aro verified by the books of the Sales Department, and if all points are in order a cheque is duly sent by the agent.
Cash Reoeipts.
All cash received in respect of sales is turned over to the financial Department, and is credited to the item of the budget "Appropriation in Aid". Immediately on the receipt of cheques or cash payments entries are made in a cash hook, which is duly signed by a member of the financial Administration at the tire that each sum of money is paid In by the Sales Section, which at the same tire acknowledges receipt of such sums to the sender,
Extension of Agencies.
In the first half of the year 1921 the returns were relatively negligible, the sales being confined more or less to casual private applicants who were supplied direct from Geneva. In May and June definite steps were taken to promote sales, and in order to give the documents the beat chance of reaching the interested public the section made arrangements with publishing houses .in the most important countries to undertake the 3ale of the league’s publications in the areas concerned.
3y the end of 1921 agents had been appointed in Belgium, Denmark, France, Great Britain (with Dominions and Colonies), Holland, Italy, Japan, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United States. During the course of 1922 were added agents in Austria and Germany, Czecho-Slovakia, Finland,Greece, Hungary, Latvia and Poland.
-6-
The number of these agents is augmented aa frequently as the possibility of extending the market appears. For instance, the appointment of further sub-agents for Australia and Few Zealand is at present under consideration and extensive arrangements for the distribution of League documents in the Commonwealth are being fixed up by Messrs, Constables. Again, sub-agents (reporting direct to Constables) have been, and are being, appointed in many of the most important towns in Great Britain, including two in London, and one each in Edinburgh, Birmingham, Oxford, Cambridge, Glasgow, and Liverpool, Agents for the three divisions of the Sorbo-Croate-Slovene Kingdom are also being appointed.
The publications which two years ago were supplied to casual applicants direct from C-eneva, may now be seen and inspected in the shops of agents in twenty-two States and in all tho British Dominions.
Relative value of markets.
Sales vary considerably in the different areas. More than 80fo of the total sales are effected in English-speaking countries-Great Britain and the United States leading easily a3 purchasers,
In these countries interest in tho activities of the League and the capacity to buy are combined, Japan (also taking the publications in English) is probably third. Of the other countries France and Switzerland come next, and Belgium some littlo distance behind. In Italy and Spain sales are -very slow, as is also the case in the Scandinavian countries, Holland is satisfactory relati ely, hut not good.. The Central European,
Baltic and Balkan countries are markets too new to report on, but nothing very considerable can be hoped owing principally to 1Gb. e chaotic condition of the currency systems. Details as to cash heceipys m the various agents would not furnish an even basis for estimating the relative value of the different markets, as such payments are for different periods of time, but for purposes
~7
of comparison the following tablof based on personal adquaiutanco with the varying conditions, will give on idea of the general situation:
(The standard of maximum relative value is 1,000)
Austria end Germany
Belgium
Czechoslovakia
Denmark
Great Britain
Branoo
Graeco
Holland
Hungary
Italy
Japan
Latvia
Horway
Poland
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
United States
Beceipts .
The cash receipts have naturally been augmente l in ratio to increase in the representation of the documents and to the efforts put forward by the section concerne1. In the first six months before the organisation of the Solos Section (January to June, 1921) the receipts were only about 3,200 francs,,
Prom July to December of the same year they rose to 14.,989 francs making a total of approximatoly 18,200 francs for the year 1921«,
In the course of 1922 the sales jumped considerably0 During that year the Section was able to extend considerably the work done in 1921 and the sales showed corresponding results.
Cash already received in re spec t _of sales during 1922 amounts to 117,519 francs - about 5-g- times the sum received during the previous year, and 82,519 francs in excess of the amount anticipated in the Budget Appropriations in Aid”) in respect of sales (35,000 francs). To this sum have still to be added amounts due from, agents in respect of scies effected during 1922, but which will only be paid in the current year»
3
50
10
5
1, 000
80
9
60
10
25
100
*?
5
3
25
10
75
900
-8-
Distributlon of Receipts,
The information supplied by the agents is often too incomplete: to furnish an adequate basis on which to calculate the exact amount of money which would be due (theoretically) to each of the sections in respect of the sale of the publications issued by it. Since, however, an estimate is desirable for budgetary purposes I have, after a careful anclysis of the available data, arrived at the following table of relative percentages. The figures given Show in a more or less approximate manner the percentage of the year’s receipts which has been received from the sale of the documents of each of the various Sections*
Official journal	32*
Treaty Series	11*895
Economic	33*
Information (Monthly summary)	3.
Transit	1.7
Opium	. 1
Health	1.
Epidemiological	.25
Social	,75
Assembly	8.1
Album (son Activite par	1'Image) 1.5
Armaments	.5
Mandates	.5
International Bureaux	1,7
Administrative Comm.issiona	.005
Permanent Court	4.
100
-9
It is extremely difficult to estimate for the year 1923, hut if the plans I have in mind can he put into action the results should easily pass the 150,COO fr, mark - cr more than double tho amount foreseen in the Budgotr
(Signed) ]?„ G. H. SYIIOMS.
LEAGUE OF NATIONS.
a»
Confidential Circular 2.
Geneva,
23rd March 1923.
DB
STAT
LEGATIOH
EAENT BY THE SOVIET BUSS IAN TRADE RE PARTICIPATION III THE NAVAL CONFERENCE.
The Soviet Russian Trade Delegation's statement about participation in the Naval Conference, as supplied by our London Office, reads as follows:-
"In reply to the communication sent to Tchitcherin by the League of Nations announcing the summoning of an International Conference for the purpose of considering the extension of the principles of the Washington Treaty to all States which have not signed it, the People's Commissariat for Foreign Affairs has published an official announcement stating that the Spviet Government, as heretofore, regards the League of Nations as a coalition of a few States which is unwarrantably attempting to usurp the power of other States. Nevertheless, with the object of minimising the war burdens weighing upon the working peoples of the ’world, the Soviet Government will participate in the Conference, independent of who are its initiators".
Confidential Circular
3.
Genève, le 17 avril 1913.
-CCI j j. j aj -j n-... ri Ou S.
xiioüi:-• sJ'Uir: ccLv'ht^fiOA avec U». CU.'lü .ij—, le lo avril 19 23«
J’ai déjeuné . .ujoura’nui avec II. QU33--UÙ,. Ministre au Chili à paris, actuel loue ni à Genève en qualité de représent ,nt au Chili au Conseil ci.' ~dministratien eu Bureau Inter national au Travail.. J’ai discuté avec lui la question de la Conférence de G ntiago.
LIGUA P-il .liiac^Iir:: - II. .uesaaa est u' opinion qu'on a en.géré l'importance et 1er résultats possibles de cette conférence.■ Il croit que la question de la Lime pana-néric _ine sera simplement un mj et do oonvers- tion, mais qu’elle ne ser. pas sérieusement prise en considération par 1. Conférence,, et que, dans tous les cas, elle ne ser--.it pas acceptée cotte année.- Los '".t ts-Unis n. 1 ’accepteraient pas: cette ssoci-tion diminuerait,, plutôt qu’elle ne 1’ augmenterait, leur influence en Amérique L tine,. ils ne veulent pas plus assumer d’obligations envers les pcys latino-américains en formant partie d'une société des Actions américaines, qu'ils ne veulent le faire vis-à-vis ue l'Uurope en formant partie de la société des Hâtions. L'un •utre coté, 1.1» uesada a l'impression que nos pays ne sont pas encore prêts pour une association de ce genre et qu'il y a pour les p°ys latino-américains le danger d'etre absorbés, comme conséquence d'une association avec un pay3 aussi puis un t que les Lt&ts-Unis«
II. ^uesada rca déclaré que l'opinion generale de l'Amérique du Bud est avorablo à la société des Hâtions et que, même lorsque l'on supposait que la ligue Panaméricaine pouvait se réaliser, tout le monde était d'avis qu'elle ne visait pas à diminuer l'influence de la Société dos Hâtions ni à devenir sa rivale»
DESABIGlLOffT3- I.iü Qmesada pensa quo les a.tiolos du pro -gramme de la conférence se rapportant au désarmement ne seront pas non plus discutes sérieusement„ Uno Commission sen probablement nommée pour etudier cette question et faire un rapport pour la prochaine conférence panaraériaaino, au Chili l'opinion publique est très favorable au désarmement à cause, d'une part, des dépenses actuelles très élevées, et d'autro part, de la situation économique difficile dans laquelle le pays se trouve»
Une des raisons pour lesquelles la question désarmement ne sera pas étudiée sérieusement résidé ¿ans le fait que l'Argentine et le Brésil ne sont pas d’accord sur cette question et que cas deux pays, malgré les déclarations officielles, sont en réalité , plus ou moins en état de défiance vis-à-vis l'un de l'autre,. D'un autre côté, les Etats-Unis ne seraient sûrement y>a disposés à réduire leurs armements pour se conformer à une décision de la Conférence panaméricaine, faisant valoir, le cas échéant, leurs engagements anterieurs a. ee sujet vis-à-vis des pays signataires de 1'accord de Washington, Au oas où la Conférence déciderait de nommer la Commission indiquée plus haut, 1.1, ^uesada pense que les Etats-Unis ne permettraient pas que cette Commission collabore aveo la section du Dés moment do la Société des Dations^ mais quo néanmoins, Bivas Vicuna et Edwards trouveront toujours le moyen d'établir une collaboration extra-officielle.
-3-
r her Bb station d.ü la
oCCIBTB Dbb ImTlOPo A LA CÛBBSRPBOB
PB SA ITT I AGO: - L’opinion personnello de Id. Quesada, qui paraît §tie en meme temps l’opinion générale en Amérique du sud, est qu’il n’y avait aucun inconvénient à la collaboration des organisations techniques de la Société des Nations avec la Conférence de Santiago« Seuls le- Ïïtats-Unis se sont opposés formellement à cotto collaboration»
Q,U jiuTlOIiS POUANIBRB3 etc.:- Si la Conférence obtient un résultat quelconque , se sera, d'après - . Quesada, dans les questions douanières, économiques, financières, des communications, etc,, mais il pense que dans tous les cas, ces résultats seront peu jmportants.
L. brocha
Bureau de 3’Amérique latine
Hxtrait du "JOURNAL PB GBNBV'i!’’ -	14 Avril 1923 -
.ACCORD I..AO .dIBLB POUR LA R INDUCTION DBS ÀRI.13I.13NT3.
-n On mando de Santiago du Chili à Havas qu’en raison de la présentation du rapport du Comité des Armements fait par les délégués du Chili, on considère que l'accord sur la limitation des armements est impossible pendant la présente sossion de la Conférence pan-americaine.
Les délégués chiliens ont fait tous leurs efforts vers la solution do ce problème mais ils ont été on opposition avec la détermination du Brésil de continuer son programme d'armement jusqu’à la satisfaction de scs besoins extérieurs et intérieurs et aussi avec le refus de la République Argentine d’envisager oo rapport comme base d’accord.
r
LEAGUE DATIONS.
■onfidential Circular e .
Hota by Mr, Sweetser v'ith reference to the visit of Dr.- Ranchman and Mr, Ci lehr 1st to the United States of America
------------------- April 23rd 1923,
■j sscRUTAr.Y out:7:RAD
16
As both. Dr. Ranchman and Mr* Gilchrist leave for the United States this week, I would surest that it might be useful for-, those interested to male any observations regarding League work there» I have noted very quickly the following list of current questions, which is of course quite incomplete:-
CD
(2)
(3)
(4)
CUSTOMS COUFSRSNCSb October 15» Secure: Text Invitation,
EodenTs article A r.3 c letter,
Any section publications.
TRAIT-IT CONFERENCE î November 15. Secure: Invitation.
AcS » letter to Herter on Advisory Cttee. Last Council decision HaasT documents»
See: Leland Harrison,
S tate Depariment C c.A hier ter, Go mss me Department,
2 47 i gglesw o r th, Treasury Dept:
See: C-jjA»Herter.Commerce Department»
OPIUM CD ESDI OH : Dew York.;
Ctbe
¿oreign Policy Aesc Luncheon.
Miss Merriman Mrs. Moorhead.
Representative in May-Police Meeting results
V/a oh Ington •
Lelan.d Harrison,
(State Department) Govt. representatives in May. Chairman Porter, House For ,Aii airs
WHITE SLAVERY: Dew York:
More news to Geneva (all documents) Cttee.
Dew Assessor-	Treasury officials
(see Sydenstricxer) Mrs «.Hamilton Wright
Secure: Dame RachelTs Memo
A.S.letter to Miss Abbott See: Dr. Flexner
Bascom Johnson
Foreign Policy Assoc»Dew Cttee.
(5) WIRELESS STUDY:
Secure: Salandra's Report,
Washington :
See: Miss Grace Aobott labour Dept» Secure : Eahnnil Minutes last session Dossier from Dame Rachel.
See: Walter Rogers, State Dept»
CoA» Herter, Dept. Commerce.
Progress in U »S »
International program»
(6)	ARMAMEDTS:
Secure: Salandra* s Report & Resolution See:	Leland Harrison, State Department.
(?) MANDATES:
Status U.3» negotiations with Mandatory Powers* American on Commission.
(8) ECONOMIC & FINANCIAL:
Austrian Loan»
See Ivy Lee - Securo : monthly Summary supplement
Salter's speech.
American Experts or data required?
3B
SOCIETE DES NATIONS,
Commuiilqué aux Sous-S g c re taires Generaux ot aux Directeurs.
L'ARGENTINE ET LA SOCIETE DES NATIONS,
Télégramme de R, No grue ira.
Confidential Circular 5, Genève, le 5 mai, 1923*
Traduction.
MONTEVIDEO 4 0 H.55
NATIONS GENEVE
NUMERO SEPT ALVEAR ANNONCERA PROCHAIN MESSAGE PARLEMENT E3INCCRP0RATICN ARGENTINS SOCIETE.
NOGUEIRA
37
LEAGUE_OF HATTONS.
Confidential Circular 6.
GENEVA, 85th June, 1925.
MEMORANDUM TO UNDER SECRETARIES- IENORAL ¿JiD DIRECTORS
The suggestion has "been made that the Report on the work of the Council should contain an introduction giving a general picture of the contents of the Report and consequently of the activities of the league during the period under review. Last year, the Report opened without any such prefatory notice but rather with the list cf States which had ratified the Court, White Slave and other conventions drawn up through the League.
It will be remembered that some discussion took plaoe in the Assembly as to the possibility of making the report more readable. With this idea in mind and particularly with the thought of giving a general picture of League
activities for the iBe of the larger public which will not
, ' * read all the details of the report, Idle attached draft
introduction has been suggested. ‘This draft does not
profess to be in final form but. is, on the other hand, simply
a general indication of one way in which- certain
difficulties attaching to the Report maybe met.
I would appreciate, therefore, if Under-Seeretaries-General and Directors could read through this draft in order that the whole question of the advisability of some such general introduction might be discussed at the next Directors Meeting on 'Wednesday, 87th June, 1923.
(Sgd•) L.D.
25th June, 1925.
IITIRODUC 'i I 0 S’
2he nine months which have elapsed since the Third Assembly rose on September 30 th* 1SS2, have boen of great importance to the League of nations.
International affairs during that period have teen subject to serious stress» Tf/o major situations have oast their shadows over the relations of nations, on the ore-hand, that of reparations and inter-Allied debts which has beocme greatly intensified during the year, and on the other, that of the Near East which, has engendered a feeling of uncertainty and tension throughout international life.
Both these situations, however, represent problems still unsettled from the war; both involve States not Members of the League; and both have been handled in direct negotiation between the immediately interested par tie80
Despite this critical background of international life, it has still been possible for the nations to make considerable progress in international cooperation through the mechanism afforded by the League. Lot only have the many different kinds of cooperation already initiated been appreciably consolidated but at the same time that cooperation has been extended both to new fields and to a larger number of interested nations. As a result, meetings of the Council, the Commissions and Committees have both been more numerous than last year and have also had a larger representation of States present and a greater variety of questions on their agendas0
States Members of the League have made more use of the
g-
League’s system of cooperation and conference than in previous years.	As the league is an association of sovereign states
which can function only if and when its Members entrust vcrk to it, this fact is of considerable importance in the development of the league.	11 is noteworthy, therefore, that in addition
to its previous duties, several States have brought disputes bofore the Council, as for instance, Great Britain, Roumania and Bulgaria, while others have suggested questions for technics a 1 discussion, as Italy in the matter of wire less telegraphy, Albania in the matter of financial advice, Holland in port sanitation,
Canada as re cards Opium smuggling and so forth, One practical result has been that the Council, as enlarged by last ye at ‘ s assembly to a membership of ten States, has on occasion had ten other specially interested States present at its cession.
The corollary of this faet has been an increased responsiveness amongst States Members of the league to the various roqueste for information and opinion made through the league, In other words, the league seems to have become more firmly established than last year as a medium for a general interchange of views or information. In this consideration of the relation of States Members to the League Organisation, it is gratifying to point out that hie Argentine Parliament has recently passed a law clarifying that country’s position towards the league»
A similar progress may be noted as regards States outside the League. The Irish Pree State has submitted an application for membership whio.h is to be considered at the forthcoming Assembly; the Turkish Government has been promised the support of the Principal Allied Powers for membership just as soon as a favourable conclusion to the present negotiations paves the way for her application therefor; the United States has been represented
-3
in a consultative capacity in the Committees oi£ Traffio in
Vi omen and Children, Opium, Health and finance, and is considering
membership in the Permanent Court of International Justice.
Germany had continued her representation in certain of do. e technical and humanitarian work of the league, while the Soviet Commissar of Health has participated in meetings of the Health Committee at Geneva and the Soviet authorities have agreed to certain other cooperation in regard to Health and Refugee problemsc
The outstanding single event of the period since the last Assembly has been the successful carrying into effect of the plans for the rehabilitation of Austria. The Protocols elaborated at Geneva have been duly ratified not only by the four Powers immediately concerned, but also by several other European nations; the .Austrian loan of 650 million gold crowns has been guaranteed by nine interested European States up to 100>1 of its value; and both the preliminary loan of million pounds and the proportional shares of the large loan have been over-subscribed in the London and Hew York markets.
Meanwhile, the essential reform within Austria has boon set in motion. Dr. Zimmerman, formerly Burgomaster of Rotterdam, was appointed League of Hations High Commissioner at Vienna on December 16th 1922, and the fundamental laws of reform subsequently passed. Over 35,000 officials have been discharged; the various Ministries and Government Offices have been consolidated; the new Bank of Issue has been created; the issue cf paper currency has ceased; and the crown has remained practically stable during the six months of League control.
Of the permanent organisations created through the instrumentlity of the League, the Permanent Court of International Justice has new settled into international life as an essential element. During fee
-4-
year a number of additional States have ratified the Court Protocol and the optional clause for compulsory jurisdiction,, Simii. rly, the juriudiction of the Court has boon appreciably extended by the faot that it has been named as the instrument of settlement for any disputes which may arise in many different treaties signed during the year,
Already six cases have been presented to the Court, including several of far-reaching importance, A special session was held at tiie beginning of the year, as a direct consequent© oif which Great Britain and Prance reached %reement on the Tunis-Morocco nationality dispute. The second ordinary sess,on opened on June 15th, when the Court had before it throe cases, two requests by the Council for advisory opinions regarding Minority rights in Poland and Eastern Carelia, and the third a suit brought by the Principal Allied Powers against Germany regarding the right of free passage through the Kiel Canal,
Akin to the work of the Court has been the development of international law which has talien place through the League during the year» The various international conventions and agreements drafted in connection with the League including those on Labour, Transit, White Slavery, and the Court, have received many new signatures and ratifications since the last Assembly, and several now conventions havo been formulated for action at the forth coming Assembly. The process of registration of all new treatie s has accelerated, until it may7 truly be said that the League of Nations is developing into an international centre both for drafting and for registering international law.
In the field of international finance and economics a series of measures have been initiated in order to overcome certain serious international difficulties. A Conference on Customs Formalities
-5~
has been called for October 15th, when it is hoped that, as a result of the intensive expert study already under way it may be possible to remove some of the unnecessary restrictions now imposed on the free movement of international trade. Similarly, two Conventions have been draftee after long consultation acceptance by the forthcoming Assembly, one bn Arbitration Clauses in Commercial Treaties, and the other on the Equitable Treatment of Foreign Nationals and Enterprises admitted to pursue their industry or occupation in the territory of another Stats,
Considerable preliminary study and fact-finding has taken plaoe in other economic and financial questions. The very difficult question of Double 'Taxation, whereby foreigners are taxed in both their country of origin and of residence has been examined first by a Committee of Experts, and second by a Committee of the taxation authorities of different countries. The unification of legislation on bills of exchange and thee stahlishmsnt of uniform international statistical standards have also been gone into.
Finally, the League has developed into a clearing-house for the publication of official statistics on questions such as banking, currency and exchange0
Another noteworthy departure from precedent has been the appointment by the Council at the request of Albania of a Financial Adviser to that country, who, though an official of Albania, is to report to the League every three months during his five-year contract Thus for the first time a State facing serious difficulties has been able to appeal to an international association for expo rta dvice,
The man chosen for the post was Mr. Hunger, who had been for 29 years a member of the Dutch Colonial Service in Javac
In the field of international communications and transit, the groundwork has been laid during the past nine months for the second international conference to be-helu this Fall. In pursuance
-6-
of the work done at the Barcelona Conference the permanent
committee has succeeded in working out the draft railroad
convention which the previous conference was not able to complete
and has also prepared two new conventions, one on the transit of
hydro-electric power across States and the other on the common use
of a hydro-electric basin situated between two or more states.
A preliminary study is also being made into the question of'
wireless telegraphy, which was brought before the Leagpe by Italy
as a question of great international importance„
Considerable progress has also been made during the past nine
months in bringing together the various international Health.
agencies, A draft proposal has been'worked out for approval by
the Assembly, the Council and the Office International d’Eygiene
league
Publique which would bring about that cooperation between the/Health Organisation and the Office International which it was not possible to bring about at the Hirst Assembly, at the time when the United States, though a Member of the Office International, was not a Member of the Health Organisation. Sow, however, that the United States is represented on the Health Committee, it is possible to do away with much of the previous duplication of effort«
As regards detailed international Health cooperation, three interchanges of sanitary personnel between the different Public Health Services, made possible by the generous subvention of the Rockefeller foundation, have taken place in Belgium, Italy, Great Britain and Austria, while others have been planned for the United States, Phe task of creating a centre for world epidemiological intelligence has also been begun and studies initiated agregards the standardisation of anti-toxic sera, the amount of dangerous drugs needed for medicinal purposes, the transmission of diseases by international waterways, and certain especially critical maladies such as cancer, malaria and sleeping-
sickness. In addition the Epidemic Committee, though greatly limited for funds, has been active, especially among the Refugees in Greece.
Apart from these questions of international organisation and apart from the regular work of the permanent committees and commissions of the League, there has been considerable activity either in specialised activities or immediate questions. In the political field, for ins tance, several questions have been brought before the League in addition to those of Austria and Albania already mentioned and the funis-, orocoo and other cases brought before the Court.
Hungary., acting under Article 11 of the Covenant, has raised the question of the ex-prcpriation by Reuraania of the immovable property of Hungarian optants, while Bulgaria has also brought up under the same article the question of the treatment by Greece of certain peoples in Western Miraoe, and Finland, certain questions pertaining to Eastern Carelia, The last part of the Czechoslovak frontiers has been settled in negotiations between that country and Hungary, as well as another boundary q res ti on be tween Aus tria and Hungary. The Poli sh-Li thuanian dispute, which has occupied the attention of the league for over two years, has been withdrawn from the consideration of the Council because oi a decision of tie Principal Allied Powers as to the definitive frontier, Lithuania, however, has brought two points of protest before the forthcoming assembly,,
The extremely dedicate question of the protection of Minorities throughout Eastern Europe which, in accordance with a series of treaties, is to be secured through the League of Rations, has come up for discussion on several occasions. Lhe methods of
-8-
handling such disputes as worked out at the last Assembly have been put into operation and several petitions and requests already received. One question, that regarding oertain German colonists in Poland, has been referred to the Permanent Court of International Justice as regards its legal aspects, while the status of minorities in Esthonia and Latvia, which were discussed at the last Assembly is to come up at the fourth Assembly»
So also the Mandates principle may now be said to be in operation. All the Mandates except Irak having been approved previous to the third Assembly, the various Mandatory Powers are now submitting their annual reports on the territories entrusted to them and the Permanent Mandates Commission has been called for July 20th to consider these reports.	In addition, the national
status of the inhabitants cf the mandated areas has been determined by the Council following detailed negotiations between the various Governments. The Government of South Africa has submitted the report promised to the Third Assembly on tfce Bondelwaertz Rebellion and the British Government certain agreements arrived at with King Eeisal recognising the Kingdom Of Irak as an independent State and promising it support for membership lit the League.
The administration of the Saar Valley under the Governing Commission appointed by the Council of the League' continued during the year with several very important questions being referred to the Council. So also many questions ooncerning the free City of L'&nzig which has been placed under the protection of the League oame before the Council and were settled either by direct negotiations at Geneva or by Council mediation. In the case of the former, the issuing of a decree for tire maintenance of public order during a serious miners' strike was questioned by the Swedish Member on the
-9-
of a request by the British Government Council and later made the basis/for an enquiry as to whether
the administration of the Terri t ory was in conformity with
the spirit and letter of the Treaty of Versailles* In the
case of Danzig a large number cf disputes between the Dree City
and Poland were referred to the league and se^ttled either by
direct negotiation at Geneva or by the Council. During the year
also General Haking, who had been High Commissioner for two
years, resigned, and was replaced by Mr. MacDonnell.
Hie question of disarmament, which was considered at length by the Third Assembly and later by the competent technical committees, has, of course, been seriously affected by the unsettled political conditions prevailing throughout the world, Nevertheless, considerable progress has been made towards evolving the Pact of Guarantee which the last Assembly recognised as essential to any appreciable reduction of national armaments. Proposals far more definite than were possible last year will, therefore, be presented to the Assembly this year, together with further studies in other more detailed aspects of the problem.
In the field of social questions, the campaign for the suppression of the traffic in Opium and other dangerous dpugs was given considerable impetus during the year by two facts. Hirst, the normr,l progress of the work of the Committee in the gathering of information and in the securing of international cooperation for controlling the traffic reached a point where it was possible to propose mew and more definite steps for the overcoming of tire evils of drug abuse. Second, the difficulties created by the previous absence of the United States were over-qome by the presence of a strong American Delegation containing repx-esentatives of Congress, the State Department, and the Public Health Service. Consequently, plans were evolved for approval
-10-
by the forthcoming Assembly, adopting certain general principles for drug control and calling for a series of special conferences to consider the gradual suppression of the os e of prepared opium and the limitation of the manufacture of dangerous drugs.
Bo also with the international effort against the traffic in women and children. Official reports show that the Convention drawn up at the second Assembly is becoming widely ratified and agencies being duly set up in many States to make its purposes effective,- A new proposal, moreover, was submitted by the American representatives for an expert international investigation into the actual extent and scope of the situation,
The foregoing general summary of the activities of the?
League in the nine months since the la. st Assembly indicates that the mechanism of international cooperation is being rapidly brought together in many of its essential parts.. Despite the great difficulties of the world’s unsettled political condition, the groundwork for a large measure of international cooperation has been laid in many different phases of international life.
More and more as one Assembly succeeds another and as the various questions pass through the different stages of expert study to political acceptance, it is obvious that the nations are taking a dvantage of the opportunities cf conference and cooperation offered to them by the League machinery..
40
LEAGUE OF IIATIOHS,
■istributed to	Confidential Circular 6fa)
£cLor-Secretaries Central r7[~Directors.
PROPOSED IRT'RCDUOTTOil TO THE REJ O'
OK
;C Z CF TF.
council.
A note on Confidential Circular 6, dated Juno 25th 1323»
The idea of an introduction to the Report on the Fork of the Council, which I understand is to be discussed at the Directors1" Meeting to bo hold on June 27th, raises an old problem for which no satisfactory solution has yet been found» A summary of the kind suggested in the Confidential
Circular of Juno 25th 1323 was drafted in 1321, on the basis of an admirable text prepared by Mr. Swoetser. to servo as a preface for the Resolutions of the First Assembly. The summary was suppressed at the last moment, after the resolutions ware already printed and bound, in conseciuence of a decision token at a Directors1 Meeting specially summons! to deal with this painful crisis. At that Meeting I was the only member of the Secretariat (except I believe Sir Herbert Ames) who defended the introduction, which several months afterwards was printed and published as a special pamphlet over the signature of I.ic Hymans. The principle laid down on that occasion was that it was impossible to combine the work of the Information Section, which is directed towards tho popularisation of the activities of the league, ':,ith the work of the Precis Writing Department, which prepares official documents«, The Report on the rrork of the Council is intend :! to serve as a basis for a general discussion at the Assembly on the work of the league during the current year and to instruct delegates on the progress achieved. It would he in keeping with the exact purpose and scope of the report if at the closo of the supple-
2-
montary portion to "bo issued, on the ovo ox the mooting of the next Assembly a special chr ■ ter were added, summarising the progress mado with tho various questions since the delegates separated in September 1322. Each subject might be taken in turn and in each case there would be a concise statement of tho position at the beginning and at the end of the period under review. As the supplementary portion of ithe report would be issued on or about September 1st, the suggested addendum ”’Ould be chronologically up to date, and
would form an excellent digest for delegates who desired to speak
\
on a question without having previously studied it.
In tho carrying out of this '•suggestion it would be necessary for the Sections of the Secretariat to co-operate with the Precis Writing Department. Perhaps the best procedure would be for each Section to prepar., a statement as concise as possible on the position of its work in September 1322 and in September 1923 > These statements .should bo sent 'to the 'Precis Writing Department in most cases immediately after the next Council Hooting in July They ’would be edited with a view to their inclusion in tho General Summary, and such changes made as mi,gl t bo neeessary to make tho Summary uniform in stylo and to bring the various questions into perspective. Any changes would, cf course, bo discussed with the Section concerned and the- result'would be submitted to tho Secretary-General. Tho whole Summary would thus have the imprimatur of the experts and .of the Secretary-General himself.
It is not contended that this procedure would result in light reading for tho amatour, but it would perhaps moot the needs of delegates and journalists desiring at short notice to talk or to write about the activities ox' the league during tho last twelve months.
fSigned) John PALLIEH.
Juno 26th, 1923o
r 'Oironl&yji i b )
Geneva, 2 6th June, 1923.
Note hy Professor Attolico
on the suggested Introduction to the Secretary-General’s Report
to the Assembly.
I remember the discussion in the Assembly as to the possibility of making the Secretary-General’s Report more readable, and. I agree that something might be done in this direction. But Ido not think that a memorandum such as the one here presented will fulfil the purpose aimed at. The danger of an introduction, in the case of a voluminous report, is that it might result in many people reading nothing elso - a danger which would naturally increase in proportion to the shortness of the introduction. In this particular case the introduction proposed would consist of some four printed pages, in which space it is manifestly impossible.to summarise the whole report. The condensation necessary would therefore involve the selection of merely the main features of the report and would thereby entail the substitution of the Secretariat in" the role of the public, who alone, according to their particular individual inclinations, should decide what are and what are not the League's most important activities. The memorandum in question is not, moreover, a mere summary of the work of the Council, but a eulogistic account of the League: this is exactly what -re should avoid. Laudatory comments must be left tfl the public and to the ^ress and should not be indulged in by the Secretariat itself.
What should be aimed at is something of a different nature. Each of the parts of the Secretary-General’s Report, dealing with a particular phase of the League's activities, should consist both of a "general part" setting forth the work accomplished up to date an6 pr-esenting a comprehensive survey of the situation as it is to-day comparer! with the situation as we left it a year ago, and a "special part" containing a series of annexes and documents showing in dotail the various phases through which the work has passed during the year, with perhaoc a historical account of the meetings etc. held in connection therewith.
This year it is too late to adopt a system ouch as I have suggested, as the Secretary-General's Report is practically ready.
But what might he done is to invert the order of procedure suggested, and append to the Report a sort of epilogue of some twenty-five to thirty pages, recapitulating in an impartial manner thw work accomplished in each field of the league's activities, and giving ' chapter and verse for every statement by means of references to the Renort itself. Each part should be the work of the Section concerned, while the whole should he given unity by passing through a single hand working in co-operation 'vith the different Sections. I
I have d is cussed my ideas with Mr. Palmer, who agrees that the proposal is a feasible one., and has, at my request, put in .writing certain definite suggestions,
\
A taper such as that attached to Confidential Circular Fo.. 6 might, after revision, very well be used for the Monthly ,
Nummary or other journalistic purposes* Eor instance, I -would try to have something of this kind published in a paper or review appearing in Italy.
Distributed to	Confidential Oiioular £
XJnd e r Sec re tar i s 3_-Gene ral And Directors .
PROP OS 11 INTRODUCTION TO THE REPORT ON TEE WORE OF TEE COUNCIL.
Note by tie Secretary-Generalc
Since the Directors Meeting yesterday, I have given considerable thought to the questions which were discussed in connection with the proposed introduction for the Report on the Work of the Council, The decisions taken at the Meeting were.
1.	that we should endeavour to secure the agreement of Viscount Iahii, who will open the Assembly, to a speech by him giving an outline of the most important features of the work done by the League since the Assembly of 1922,
2,	that an analytical index should he attached to the supplementary report on the Work of the Council,
3»	that a document should be prepared, giving a summary,
according to the subject natter, of the work done by the League between the two Assemblies; that this document should be sent to various important newspapers with a personal letter from differs Members of the Information Section, calling the attention of the Editor to parts which the member thinks may he of particular interest to the country concerned,
As this latter document must necessarily be of the nab of the summary proposed by Professor Attolico, I am inclined so that it would be useful if it were prepared in the manner suggas by Kr. Palmer. In this case, while primarily intended for Pros purposes, we could also distribute it to the Delegations, as has
;",re th x te d 3
he
o
suggested, but I should be glad to know whether the Directors feel ti at it is possible to ¿prepare in their various Sections the necessary statements '/} icl; v/ill al 1 or; such a summery to be mode Obviously a summary ox fa is kind r/i]. 1 ultimately he of the greatest assistance when the ssocial edition of the Monthly Summary comes out dealing with the work of the League during the
year 1923.,
If, as I	hope, the Directors, will	fi nd i t	possible	to
undorbake the pro\.	oration of such statements	, they si	¡ould bs :	o e n t
as soon as possibli	e to Mr. Palmer, who would	prepare	and c.' i 1;	the
summary.	( Initialled	) IhD,		
28th Juno,
1923
34

LEAGUE OF KATIONS.
Confidential
Viscount IsMi, "hom I s--w this morning, gladly
make a	sp	0 0	oh at	the	opening of	the	Assembly on	the 1
a t the	la	st	lirec	tor '	s Meeting.	He	asked that e	dr of
prepared for him. I promised him that this should he course.
(Initialled) E. D.
Circular 6(d)
■ agreed to ines proposed t should be done in due
June 3Oth, 19'3..
Confidential Circul
URDLR s^ChRfARI^s ADD DIRECTORS : * I
It is sometimes of eat importance that document sent ron d to Tarions Under Secretaries and Directors should reach them with as little delay as possible.
I should therefore he -jlad if every effort could be made th .t documents which are clearly of importance should be returned by individual under secretaries and Directors.
f si fnor ) ERIC BRUI2'ORB.
2 7th Aupu st, 1923
LEA'JUE 0? FAMOUS
48
Dx stributod to Under
FTQcrcb5,riGS~»“Grenoral	Confidential Circular 8,
mTd~l)iyoctors 6
~	Gren ot a,
October 22nd, 19230
APPOIITfLIEET G? DAITISIi HATICITAIS . TO POSTS OH COmiSSlOITS ETC,
IToto by tho Scoretary-Groneral.
The Danish minister at Borne called on me to-day, and said that, while his Grovernnont wclconod and wore much honoured by tho appointment of Danish nationals to posts on Commissions, etc,, of tho League of Hations, they would bo grateful if it wore possible for thorn to be consulted infernally before such appointments wore made.
Ec cited the case of nvo Danish Judges who had recently boon appointed to one of the Arbitration Courts« He explained that the Danish Judges were State officials, and therefore technically the Danish Cover: mont ought to have been asked for its approval, though, as a natter of fatit, they were very glad that these nominations had been made ;
(Initialled) E.D
38
LEAGUE __	___NATIONS*
Oircu'lats to-	Confidential Circular No„9,
ffoder-s e c z e fai ion G on e r a 1
and Dli.ec tors* "	'	Geneva, November 15th, '.ISS3»
1 NfERVi'EW OF SECRETARY-GENERAL
PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL
OF ITALY,
I had tho honour yesterday of Doing received by the President of the Council and am. indeed happy at the result of that meeting» The President of the Council assured me that Italy had no prejudice whatever against the League of Nations, and that he himself was
favourable to the principles of the League as, an Association of Nations formed to preserve peace, to endeavour to effect a peaceful settlement of disputes, and to promote mutual co-operation in technical international fields., Put Itai^ requires that her position as a leading and great Power, as one of}tho founders of the League
and one of the'principal signatories of the Treaty of Versailles, by which the League was esoeüîéâ, should be adequately established within the organisation through which the League functions. Italy held that at the present time her position was not sufficiently recognised. This was a situation which, he as President of tho Council could not admit» If, however, Italian rights were secured, Italy would be ready to participate fully in the work of the League, and he had no doubt that the popularity of the League in the
country would greatly increase*
I need hardly say tha t I assured the. President of the Council that I fully recognised that what Italy claimed was just.and equitable* I would not for -the moment enter into the substance of the matter, but as far as I personally was concerned. I was endeavouring to meet the desires he had expressed, and I could give him every assurance that in the future I would do my utmost, though the powers of tho 3ecretary-• G-on'ei a 1 -are of course limited, to ensure
to the full that principle of national equality which is really part of the underlying spirit of the Covenant of the League itself.
I
1
-3-
A1though a3 I have pointed out the powers of the
Secretary-General are necessarily and properly limited, yet fooir. the knowledge which more than three years have given me of the atmosphere of the League, I am. certain that the requirements of Italy as explained to me hy the President of the Council will he understood and appreciated hy the ether Members of the League-» Therefore, I feel sure that in a£l quarters there will be a genuine desire to give effect to these wishes in the most friendly spibit»
(Initialled) S. D.

1
LEAGUE OF NATIONS
Distributed to Under
S'ec 3: e t& 
and Directors.
Gunfidantisj. Circular .10«
COUNCIL HAPPCKTBUF3 FOR 1934, Note by tbe Secretary-Generals
In view of the extremely small number o-f replies received from Seotions to the questions submitted to them in a recent Directors1 Meeting with regard to the list of Counoil Kapporteurs for 1924, I asked Mr3 Walters to draw up a preliminary draft list, and I herewith, circulate it!to the Sections, It is intended. simply1to serve as.a basis for discussion at next weekrs Directors1 Meetings
(Initialled) 3C.D
November 17th (1923«,
Sul ,]C GtS
Hnp i 3 rt urs
Th • :
Amendments to the
Covenant.
Minorities,
S cj.ur .
Permanent Court of	)
International Justice ) Intellectual 0o-o_t.-^ration« )
deduction of Armaments.
Economic and Financial ) Committee*	)
Opium,	)
Health*
Danzig,
- j" .	-j	i
dviclîl Clo, G S	j
Traffic in women and) children,	)
Transit	;
Finances of the L-agacJ
representatives of:-Belgium,
Brazil*
Czech )-S lo yah i a e Prance*
Br i ti s h Empire*
I ta ly.
J ap an.
Sp air.,.
Sweden*
Uruguay.
LEAGUE 0? NATI0M3.
Confidential Circular 11
t)iqtributed to Under-Secretaries General ani directors-.
COUNCIL RAPPORTEURS FOR 1924»
Rote by the Secretary-General, '
with reference to my Circular of November 17th. ,I circulate, herewith, to Under Secretaries General and Directors the list of recurring subjects, and I should be grateful if the Sections concerned would let me have this list bach, urgently, indicating their first, second and third chQioes as-to the Rapporteurs for their particular questions»

(Initialled) E.D. November 21st.1923,
S u b j e c t s
Amendments to the Covenant.
Permanent Court of International Justice. Minorities.
Reduction of Armaments.
Transit.
Intellectual Co-operation.
Economic and Financial Committee,
Saar.
Traffic in Goman and Children.
Health.
Danz ig.
Mandates.
Opium.
Finances of the League.
LEAGUE OF EAT IOHS ,
Gistributed to Undor S o s:co tarles -Go noral and Dir Go tors.
Confidential Giro alar 12,
Geneva, December 26th, 1923,
Dr t FALSE!» * S TIE IT TO AMERICA,
Teno-rand'am by Mr., HUS TOT,
45
The Secretary-General*
I thirds: you night perhaps be interested in having a very short report of Dr« Nans on* 1 a visit to the States,.
I left here to go with him in rather a pessimistic mood concerning the usefulness of the trip. I felt that it vas particularly unfortunate that his visit should come just
after- the conclusion of the Italian - Greek affair as it seemed to me that this had affected American public opinion rather badly,
I return, however, extremely optimistic regarding the usefulness of the tour through America, I believe that Dr„ Hanson accomplished great things for the League, for international cooperation and for relief work. He had been through America seme 26 years previously lecturing on his Polar expedition work, and I sent from England as well as from the ship, several advance storios which were well received and the reception which he received upon landing wasmagni-ficent« We were met off quarantine by the Mayor-3 boat, formally received by the Mayor in Hew York and mthuaiasideally applauded by every audience which Dr, Nansen addressed. This reception continued throughout the States and Canada, if anything, I think Canada outdid the States in the warmth of their receptions. The audiences wore enthusiastic and large,, I do not think that any public meeting of less than 2,COG people was hold and several of thorn were at least double that size, In addition to this, the radio
-2—
is now found everywhere in America and practically every big public address which he gave was broadcasted» In several places, for example, such as Philadelphia, all ether broadcasting in the immediate vicinity was stepped and a radio audience running into several hundred thousand people was therefore ensured.
The newspaper publicity was, I think, as good as could have been expected. 'The New York papers all carried "front page" stories upon Dr. NansenTs arrival and his public address was very well reported. In addition to this, the Eearst press ran a series of articles - which hr. Nansen prepared while in New York - in all tboir papers. Outside of New York, I do not think there was anything to be desired in the question of publicity. We prepared advance copy of all his speeches and a historical outline cf his achievements. In a great many cases, the speeches were printed in full and in almost every other case, a very complete resumé was given«, The editorial comments were, on the whole, first rate.
The itinerary comprised New York, Washington, Pittsburg, Philadelphia, Chicago, StaPcl, Minneapolis, Minot, Fargo, Winnipeg, Toronto, Ottawa, Montreal, Boston«, Moreover, a number of side trips to such places as Yassar College, Brcoklands, John Hopkins1 University of Baltimore, etc. were made. We travelled chiefly by night and the following sample programme of one dayrs activities will pretty well indicate what happened practically every day:
8		cl o	m0	arrive Minne	apolis ,		
8	,30	TT		receive Pres	s at Hotel,		
9	.15	TT TT		Breakfast by	Governor Pr	eus	7
10	.30			address to s	tudents of	the	Un
				of Minnesota	0		
12		TT		Luncheon by	Minneap oils	n i a.	ub,
				by address»			
3	,30	p.	m c.	Short add res	s to studen	ts	H am
				' University.			
8	.30	TT		Public oddre	ss in audit	ori	urn,
11	•	P’	m,	leave Minnea	polis .		
u	thi:	3 S	ample	of one day:s w	ork to show	you t:	
ri:	tig ;	alo	ng by	the wr y l			
re
Ec appeal was made for funds to assist the Hansen relief organisation9 Ail of us connected with the tour felt that this would "be a great mistake and Dr. lie ns on agreed entirely on this point.- This left him entirely free and having no particular axo to grind, his lectures were much hotter received than would otherwise have ho on the case 9 Eis lectures were largely concerned with the following:
J- I
'he necessity for further relief measures in Europe by America.
In this connection he refurred particularly to the Greek situation and urged the necessity of relief work being carried out in Greece until such time as the refugees could be permanently settled under the scheme now in force. At the same time he praised very highly the work cf American organisations in this connection during the past few years and hoped they would not relax their efforts at the present time,
2) Eg urged the necessity for international cooperation at the present moment. It was pointed out that several storm centres still existed in Europe, the advantage tc. America itself of relieving the present economic and financial situation and the absolute necessity of this relief in Europe. Dr. Hansen endeavoured to show that this relief could be accomplished only by international cooperation of some sort. He else drew at ention to the fact that the machinery for such cooperation existed in the league of nations, that if better machinery could be devised it should be devised and put forward, if not, that the present institution should be made much more universal, 3j Dr, Hanson made a resume of the work the League had done, telling the story cf whet had been accomplished with regard to the Austrian situation and in various other fields of activity, At the suae time, ho gave a very clear explanation of the Ite.lian-Greok affair and, I think, proved conclusively that the league had played a very important part in the settlement of this delicate question.
Perhaps not the least helpful part of the work acccmplisho' during the tour wore the discussions which were held in Washington
-4-
with the President and various members of the Cabinet, the Time-tor of the .American Red Cmss, ’and with the representatives of the large banking industries of Wall Street in hew York, The latter were making a thorough study cf the Greek loan cud wonted a groat deal of information about it» I- dinner was given by the President of the Bankers Trust and conferences wore held with Mr. Zcnt &
Mr. Guy Emerson of the sane institution, with Thomas lament, Ivight Morrow and other leading bankers» After some long conversations, Secretary Hoover and Secretory Hughes stated that the Rod Cross would, again begin to cooperate in the question of the Hear Ens1 Relief, and seemed very satisfied indeed with the productive scheme put forward for the final settlement of the refugees in that country, Piscussions were also held with Paul Warburg end ether leading men cf Jewish nationality in Hew York concerning the situation cf the Jewish refugees, as well as with Mr, Robb, Minister of Immigration in Canada concerning this same situation,
lies agreed to admit some 3 ,CCO of those Jewish refugees, part of them for final settlement and part to bo allowed to remain in Canada until such time as they can he admitted under the quota allowed to the United States,
If one were to judge by the enthusiasm of the audiences and the expressions of opinion generally heard on such a tour, one would come away convinced that the entrance of the United States into the league of Hations was only a question cf a very short tine. I1?must, however, constantly lee borne in mind that it is principally pro-League people with whom one is brought into contact.
I oome hack fully convinced that we must definitely put aside any hope of the United States joining the league - certainly during the present administration and perhaps for some considerable time. The view point which this adminis trat ion takes is tha :• tha t the
id Canada, I believe
league seems tc bo doing very well, that it is an oxen 11 -n.t thing
-5-
fcr Europe, and that tho United States will "be very glad indeed tc oeoperate with it in any piece of work where it is proved that there is unity of fooling in Europe, I do not believe that they will go further than that at the present moment0 They state that they refuse to bind themselves in any wry in advance as to what action they may take in any given circumstances . In addition to this, they state that in their opinion they can render bettor service to Europe and to thornselves by maintaining an independent position at the present time, The view point of a groat many people of America is tho following:	They are continually being told that
they must do something to help Europe, tut they point out that there is absolutely no unity of thought in Europe as to what this action should bo* For example, there is a French view-point as to whac America ought to do 5 there is a British view-point, there is a Gorman view-point, there is a League view*-point and they are continually approached from all and assistance urged from all* First reconcile those view-points and then we wj.11 be glad to cooperate with you. Please do not take it for granted that this is tho view-point of all tho people of the United States. It is, I think, the opinion cf the present administration, and, while it is of course impossible for anyme to foretell with any precision, I believe there is every possibility that tho present administration will bo returned in tho election next yoor» In the meanwhile, tho friends of tho league arc continuing to endeorour to keep tho League issue- alive in spite of the constant reiterations that tho issue has boon solved once and for ail and is dead in the States, I corridor it at least comforting that tho enemies of the League in tho States find it necessary to repeat so often that the Issue is dead. I
I loft America only a day or so after the President:s address had been delivered. I found that this had caused a considerable amount of depression to all pro-League organisations, this,
, was only a passing phase, and before I actually sailed, they
nowever

had already ‘begun to prepare to issue denials to some of the- s t ¿-'.tour) nts mado in the Presid onf's address and to provide munitions to league supporters in the House and Senate»
The situation regarding the Court of International Justice is a peculiar one,, You will remember that the original proposal as put forward, by President Harding to the Senate was considerably changed by an address which he gave in St» Louis shortly hofore his death» President Coslidge, in his address to the .Sonet"1 state! that ho favoured the World Court proposal as put forward by laesidont Harding, It was rather indefinite end no one sconed to know whether this meant that he favoured the proposal made by President Harding in his St» Louis speech, whether he favoured the original proposal, or exactly what the administration did want, I believe there is no question but what it was purposely left vague in order not to antagonise anv element of the Republican party at the present time-. I consider it very doubtful whether the Senate will take favourable-action on the question of adhering to the world Court; a large pert of the Republican Senators will not accept the proposal unless reservations are mado making it very clear that the acceptance of the Court proposal does not in any way imply acceptance of the League of nations or any responsibility towards the League» A considerable number of them will not accept the proposal to adhere to the 0ourt unless the Court is entirely divorced from the League. A large part of the domocracic senators will not accept the World Court proposal unless th •- reservations concerning the Leasrue are very mild end unless the Court - by those reservations - is left without
question a part of the
A?ague organisation- I think, therefore that
it is highly improbable that a sufficient number of supporters of an:/
bho progressive senators such as Senator Hooper .f Pennsylvania., iro endeavouring to put forward a scheme providing that when the
7-
Asscmbly and Council sit to elect the judges, they should sit as an oloctoral body of tho Court and not as a Ioague of nations hedy.
There is also the possibility that the question may not arise during this session of the Senate, At tho present time, action of the Senate is almost deadlocked owing to the fact that there is a small radical element Voiding the balance of power. This element refuses to accede to anything demanded by the majority unless they receive certain concessions, The work of the Senate has therefore been very slow indeed so far and there are a number of questions such as tax reduction, etc« which will in all probability be considered firstc Tho Senate is not likely to run very long after March 4th in view of the fact that the convention for nominating the President will bo held in June.
After viewing the situation pretty thoroughly in the States I am not sure that it would not be better for the League on the whole and in the long run if the United States did not adhere to the Court of Justice at the present time,- It would bo much easier for the League supporters to carry on propaganda in favour of both the Court and of the League than it would be for them to carry or. their propaganda for the League alone, A considerable number of enthusiasts who want something done would bo content if America adhered to the Court and would be glad to "wait and see” what effect this adherence would have, I find this view was shared by a considerable number cf pro-league people in the States, It is generally felt by League supporters that it would he tetter for America not to adopt the Court proposal at all than to adopt a proposal which would mean either drastic League reservations or complete divorce from the League itself.
1 should mention the great success which seemed to be attending the "Bok Peace Prize Proposal1'. As you probably know,
Mr, Bok offered a prize of ^100,000 to the person presenting the most feasible scheme for world peace, 350.000 to be paid when the scheme
-R-
r;as 3oleoted -uia the other '*50,1(0 tc he paid when it should he put into operation. It was kept on rather a high standard by f* 'act that the judges -rare such wen as Elihu Loot, Colonel house
and others sir.il;
ior.e 25 , CC0 plans hare
• m n on T', y-
s ente (i j ±,.i
3.-)3c stated that after a preliminary perusal, they were very gratified to find the soeningly very excellent plans -.which sere -non? the numbero He stated that a large number of these plans n- c.
•rised the League of Nations as a necessary institution in the final securing of world peace, r’hen the judges none selected the* prize winning plan, it is to be submitted to p to to which n i l iw carried cut by practically nil the great newspaper, magazines, Church organisations, national ana international organisations, schools, churches etc. in the States. .An elaborate system is .¡.Is being devised for eliminating duplicate rotes and the originator
feels sure tha t
will be able to secure a vote of some
1 0
hOw CGw'OO votes on the proposition. He hopes by this to be nbie bo influence public opinion sufficiently to make them demand some
peace settlement.
w.r.
.a i
cas certainly succeeded in getting a
great number of people tc think and talk ’world peace’’«
In Canada, the situation is of course entirely different from that of the States. The tour in Canada was arranged by the League of Nations Societies and the dentures were much more League, of Nations lectures than had been the case in the States, k'han they are endeavouring to do is work along the same lines as is he?, done by the League of Nations Union in Q-roet Britain. The leads o
seen		ed to thi:	nk tha	u OXIO	of	th	eir g	reates t	probl	e•' is	was	to	com	ba t
th	0	benevoleir	t indi	-r.e. „ i X <J T <j	ix 3 0	o f	th e	(▼prior-a 1	puLI i	C r	They	th	.ere	-{■■■i
c 0	"wL t	inually a-	3 V Up p	t th 3	y s	b o u	Id be	0due o 1	e d ms	3 ?	aids	J..0	gu.s	
Li	OS	tions and	me the	GS „	f	th	the C	onsorun	times	a-pCi	the	j_ >,	c r;	Is
S 0	r>.	to bo go-	i d s up	port?	- •it	of	the L	nague o	ax^s C-* i.	~r x. <j	appe	dll >j	i to	me
th	at	th o lead	ers of	the	Con	.s o rr a tiv		e party	\r i ■‘Pi	X J.ÍX	inijd	GO	be	~u
r.		on thus?, a:	s tie ?	p the	t T	support		than tii	D j f "	g rs	0 T *fc	he	Lib	o ra
T
partyc I think there is no question hut v/hat the League can count on the absolute and complete support of Canada and the cnthusiastic reception which I>r. ¥or±sen received left nothing to he desired ,
IT 0 T lh
In referring to the attitude of the administration towards the League, I should have mentioned that I think it highly probable that the administration will find itself more and r.oro willing to accept invitations frorj the League to cooperate with the League in certain definite work,
I would therefore urge that the Lesaue extend invitations to America to participate in the settlement of various questions which arise as far as this is possible and as far as it may seem desirable for the League so to d"m
(Signed')
ii 017 ALL HUSTON.
THE WHITE HOUSE Washington,
Oct'her 29, 19 23
My dear Mr, Creese,
I am obliged to you for your note, telling of the plans which the Amerioan-Scandinavian F oundati.on and the Foreign Policy Ass : oiati ?n have arranged to give a reception in honour of Lr. Fridtjof Hansen on the evening of November 6th., Being denied, by circumstances whieh are beyond my control, the pleasure of s personal participation in the welcome to this distinguished citizen of the world, I wish to extend to you my greetings and best wishes to him-. Few men of his time have deserved better at the hands of humanity, than has Eoct-r Nansen. His long career of unselfish service to his fellewmen has richly earned the hon rs that have come t"1 him from so many quarters, and I would feel remiss should I fail to join my testimony of welcome and of admiration which you will pay to him on the occasion :f the forthcoming reception»
Most sincerely yours,
(Signed) GALVIN OOOLIDGE,
Mr, James Creese, Secretary,
The American Scandinavian Foundation. 25 West 45 th S tre et,
NEW YORK.