MINUTES OP THE DIRECTORS» MEETINGS
1921-1922
MINUTES OP THE DIRECTORS» MEETINGS
1921
nos 1-31
h	hi ~flU	/?/?-
nfi dential
V
LEAGUE ftF UNIONS.
; straljjvted _t o i
-	1 j.gder § e ore tables-fee no ral
and I'lreotorr:,
GENEVA,
r
MINUTES OF DIRECTORS MEETING HELL AT TEE HOTEL NATIONAL
PRESENT:-	M. Monnet, Comnio Ansilctti, Ir, Nitobe, Mr. CclLan,
Sir Herbert Ames, Me Comert, Hi» van Hamel,Mr„Layton M Llantoux, Professor Rappard , Mr„Walters - Secretary
The main subject of discussion during this meeting was the date and Agenda of the next Meeting of the Council« The date proposed at the last meeting was February £Gth, The Secretary General pointed out that "besides the work arising out of the Assembly,, there were, at least- three important questions namely;-V!A" and TrB'; Mandates, the At.land Islands Report, and the Polish— Lithuanian Dispute
It was mentioned that Sencr Quinones de Leon had expressed a wish that the Barcelona Conference might be postponed until the 28th so as to allow the Council Meeting to be over before then, and that in his opinion it was important from the point of view of public feeling not to allow tco long an interval to elapse between the Assembly and the Meeting of the Council, which should deal with work arising out of the Assembly. On the other hand, it was urged that several representatives had complained that the documents, etc«, necessary for the proper consideration of the work the Council had to do did not reach them long enough before the Meetings, and that, particularly in connection with so important a Meeting, we ought to try and avoid this criticism. Before carding the discussion further on this point, it was decided to consider further the Agenda which would have to be dealt with and in particular the work, arising cut of the Assembly.
/For
2
For this purpose the Lleeting had before ix the document drawn up in the Legal Section and distributed to the Secretariat on Deoember 28th, on the Resolutions passed by the Assembly which required consideration by the Council. It was decided that the pare of this document which referred to the Council should be circulated at once with any necessary verbal alterations. It should be accompanied by a statement that detailed memoranda cn the various points were being prepared, and would be circulated as soon as possible.
3Fhe following points were dealt with in going through the memorandum:-
I.	Cov.nc j..1 Pub 1 j c 11y. Kr Ccmert to draw-up a short memorandum.
II.	1.Arnendments Comml11ee.	2r, Van Hamel t'"> draw up a short
covering memorandum, with as annex, all the amendments so
, v
far put in for it to deal with. Dr. Van Hamel considered that the Committee should be formed as scon as possible and even, if that were practicable, before February 20th. Its Report ought, of course, to he ready for circulation to the Assembly members by the beginning of June, and it would be either in session or capable of meeting at short notice throughout April, Hay and Jhne. It was held that this was of importance in view of possible developments in the American situation. Ihe hope was also expressed that the Council would continue the Committee in being after it had presented its report until the Meeting of the next Assembly, so that should an emergency arise it oruld be convoked immediately. It was decided not to take into consideration for a time any suggestions as to the names cf possible members of this Committee.
2. Committee on A.vbicle in. Dr. Van Hamel to draw up a short
a
memorandum on this. It is nct/specially urgent matter, hut ought tc be dealt with by the first Council.
/blockade
3
II.	3, Blockade Commission. Mr. Layton to prepai-e a memorandum
to "bo deqli with by first Council Meeting, but time is not a special consideration,
4,	Opium Traffic. fa) Appointment c5 Committee. Dr. Hawkling Yen to draw up a memorandum to be dealt with at first Council Meoting,
(L) Hequest to Netherland Government. The question arose whether this ooula not be done now by Secretary-General on basis of Assembly Resolution.
It was decided to loch into the matter,
5.	Traffic in Women and Children,
(a)	To be dealt with by first Council, Memorandum to be drawn up by Dame Raohsel Crowdy.
(b) To be dealt with by first Council. Memorandum to be drawn up by Dame Rachael Orowdy, M. Mantoux and Mr. Cobban. M. Mormet said that this resolution in his view referred not to women who had been placed in harems in Asia Miner, but to those who had been actually conveyed rut of the country to South America and other parts of the world, Mr. Cobban said that this interpretation would much simplify the question as otherwise wo were in danger of merely duplicating in a less efficient form the provisions of the Treaty of Sevres.
III.	Seoond Economic and Financial Conference.
No action to be taken until the Provisional Economic and Financial. Committee had reported to the Council.
XV. Permanent Court, Necessary action already taken,
•Yc a.Disarmament. There was some difference of opinion as to the desirability of aopointing the proposed temporary Commission at an early date or not. Mr. Colban feared that it might in any case do nothing effective, and that that being so, it wore better that it should not report to the next Assembly, M, Rappard thought it would not he
/ effective,
effective, tut that we ought to avoid any appearance of procrastination in this matter of particular public interest. Dr. Van Hamel hoped it could produce results and that	both the temporary Commission and the new
Section of the Secretariat should be brought into existence as early as possible in this hope. Mr.Layton thought that the Committee should be a very strong one and, on that understanding, that it should come into existence early so as to be a factor for consideration when the various national Budgets and particularly the U.S. Budget were considered in the Spring, M. Monnet also thought both the Commission and the Section should be created at the fitst Council. It was decided that a memorandum should be prepared for the first meeting of the Ccunoil, As regards tho composition of the temporary Commission different views were expressed, one being that they should be mainly political personalities, another that they sh :uld be mainly members of such organisations as the Financial and Economic Committee or the Governing body of the Labour Office. Dr. Nitobe pointed cut that it had been the intention of the Committee to mreate as comprehensive a Commission as possible, b. Question of recommending to Governments to accept an undertaking regarding their expenditure on armaments„
This should certainly be dealt with at the first meeting of the Council^
Armenia. M. Mantoux to ptepare a report to Council about developments which may have taken place up to the time of its meeting. For this purpose the Secretariat could request Information from Governments concerned. Mandates. M. Rappard said that ,TBr’ Mandates ought certainly to be dealt with by the first Meeting. As to "A" Mandates, there was the consideration that the Treaty of Sevres had not yet been ratified; however,
r
lie could without difficulty hare the necessary memorandum ready in good time« Here was further the necessity of dealing with the composition of the Mandates Commission.
As regards the recommendation about publication of Mandates, several possible courses of action were discussed
(l)	She Council might be asked by letter whether it agreed to the publication of the "A" and ,rD" Mandates before its meeting.
(S) The Council might, at its first meeting, approve the Mandates provisionally, publish them forthwith, and approve them definitely at its next meeting after hearing what impression had been made on public opinion by them,
(3)	The Secretary General might draw the attention of the Governments concerned, viz, the French, British and Belgium, tc the Assembly's recommendation, and ask whether those Governments proposed to publish the draft Mandates as presented to the Council.
(4)	The Council could deal with the Mandates at its
first Meeting and if ti finally approved, then publish them as approved; if not, their consideration would hare to be continued at the next meeting, and we should have to ask the Council whether, in view of the Assembly recommendation, it would decide to publish the Mandates meanwhile.
M. Rappard thought that as early publication as possible was desirable to forestall criticism, but it was decided tc take no action until the Council mot.
I. fl) Engagement of Auditors. Sir Herbert Ames said he was
preparing a letter to the Swiss Government on this subject, (£) CQmmittee on Allocation. Mr. Layton said that this
Committee had already been set up, and that it was hoped it could report by the 31st March.
/(2)
6
III. (2) Expert Committee on tee Secretariat, This Committee -'light to complete its Report by the 1st June. It, therefore seemed necessary that it should be appointed at the first meeting of the Council. Sir Herbert Arnes said that he hoped it could be arranged that this Committee should not begin work before, say, April 1st., in order not to clash with the audit which might begin on March 15th.
IX.	Protection of Minorities. 0nly Finland and Albania had to be written to. Mr, Colban would prepare the necessary letters.
X.	Prisoners of War. Dr, Urnsen must write to the Council about this. The Secretary-General undertook to arrange this.
XI.	Relief of children in Countries affected by the War. It did not seem possible for tins Council to undertake a serious campaign in this matter. It had to give its moral authority
to the work. - M„ Comert and Dame Rachael Crowdy in consultation with M, Rappard will draft a declaration which the Council might issue,
III. Intellectual work. A Memorandum will be prepared by Dr. Nitobe.
Besides these Items for Council Agenda which arise out of the Assembly, Mr, Colban said that from his Section there were further subjects:-
(1)	A complaint by Poland against Austria with reference to the expulsion of Polish Jews, This would be a iongish item, as it would be necessary for the Council to hear the
case as exposed by each side.
(2)	There was the Constitution of Dansig,
(3)	Two long petitions had already been received which would have to be dealt with by the CouncilTs Sub-Committee on Minorities, who would havs to report to the Council.
Mr. Layton said that the second series of meetings of the
Finance and Economic Committee could not take place before mid-
February. They would have to deal with the Termeulen scheme and
report to the Council. This was a subject of great and special
interest at the present time and it was important that the Council
on the subjeot
should deal with the Committee's report/as soon as possible. Prom his point of view, therefore, the best time for the Meeting would be towards the end of February.
Dr, van Hamel urged that public opinion v/ould demand that the Council should take up at the earliest possible date the work imposed upon it by the Assembly. It consisted mainly of the appointment of different Committees, and if well prepared beforehand, need not take long. He thought there would be no difficulty in getting ready for circulation to the Council all nedessary memoranda, jLf the Agenda were striotly confined to Assembly questions. He realised that it would be dlffioult to get doundil Members to come to Geneva for* a shoft meeting oh Assembly questions* on* say February 1st, and then fo^ a long meetihg, Say February 28th, and therefore suggested that the former should be held in Paris.
On the other hand it was felt by the greater number of Directors:-
(1)	That to hold the next meeting in Paris, unless it were for some quite definite point, which arose unexpectedly, would be against the Interest of the League.
(2)	That if a Meeting were held early in February, it would be difficult for the Counoil to justify itself in not dealing there and then with such questions as the Aaland Islands and the Polish and Lithuanian dispute.
The majority of those present were agreed that February 21st
»t 4	. •
would be the best date to aim at, and that the meeting might be expected to last a fortnight or even more.
I
- e -
Such an arrangement was particularly supported by M, Gomert from the point of view of the Press.
It was, therefore,, agreed in view of this:- •
(1)	to telephone to Paris proposing that the Barcelona Conference should he postponed to, say iiarch 15th.
(2)	to write to the Aaland Islands Commission asking them to let us have their report a good deal earlier than the date
fore-shadowed at present, viz. February 5th.
Gon.fi dontial.
21/10/2
MINUTE OF DIRECTORS1 MEETING HELD ON JANUARY 5th, 1921.
---0O0-----
Distributed to
Under Socretaries-Gencral and Directors,
PEESSK T;	Mons i our Monnot,
Commendatoro Anzilotti,
Sir Herbert Ames,
M, Contort Dr, Van Hanoi,
LI, Mantoux,
M,, RapparcL,
Dame Rachel Crowdy,
MS. Janes,
Mr. Gilchrist,
Mr. Walters [SECRETARY).
Monsieur Monnet said that H. Hymans had asked M„ da Ounha to take OYer the functions of President of the Council. 1:1, da Gunha had replied that oaring to tho state cf hio health ho hoped that M, Hymans would continue to exorcise those functions for another two or three weeks. For the present therefore M. Hymans must bo regarded as President,
As regards tho date of tho next meeting,
M. Hags was now, on tho understanding that it would be about February 21st, trying to arrange the postponement of the Barcelona Conference till about March 10th. This involved a postponement of the Danube Conference which was fixed for April 1st, so it night not be possible to arrange it. In that case the Barcelona Conference and the Council meeting would to a certain extent over lap.
He thought it desirable to establish so far as possible a provisional agenda for the Council meeting which might be sent cut to the Members as scon as it had been approved by the Secretary-General on his return.	......
The following were the Items whinh it was agreed ought to find a plaoe On thai agenda:
A) The appointment of a number of dormissions, and other work arising out of the Assembly as dealt in the Memorandum of the Legal Section whioh is to be circulated to the Council (Annex 1 to 9).
M. Maritaux said that it was important thau the names of :	candidates for Commissions
should be ready as far as possible when the Council moots. This was of particular import anco with regard to the new Armaments Commission. He understood that the British Government was going to propose a Conference on reduction of naval construction. It was unfortunato that such a Conference should bo proposed otherwise than under tho auspices of tho League, but the fact that America was not a Member made it difficult for the Lcaguo to insist, It was however necessary that tho League’s Commission should be in being as soon as possiblo, so that if such a Conferonce wore hold, it could keep in touch with it.
It is understood that the memoranda to be prepared regarding- tho various Commissions should make no reference to names of the Members to bo appointed, but that oareful thought should be given before the meeting tc the choice of names,
b)	Other questions (Annex 11 to 20).
As regards item Iff M. Rappard said that B.Mandates must certainly bo dealt with, but as regards A,Mandates, it might bo necessary to await tho ratification of tho Treaty of Sevres.	.............
2
3
As regards it.era 11 Mr Rapparl said that no memorandum was nocossary, as the constitution of the Committee was already settled, and it only remained to nominate the Members«.
As regards item 12, Mo Uantoux said ovon if no special new point requiring the decision of the Oouncil as a whelo had arisen by then, the subject.must nevertheless he on the agenda* Ee would prepare a report of action taken since the last meeting of the Council0
As regards item 13, Il.> Hantoirx explained that after returning from the Baltic the Commission had separated, and could not meet again before tho end of ¿January0 One of its Members, Mo Situs had returned to .America, and would not be back before the 28th. Allowing thereforo 1G days or so for the preparation of the report, which was a minimum, it could not reach., us in tine to be distributed and fully considered by the Members of the Council before the meeting.
As regards .1 ten 11, M,. Gilchrist said that the term of Office cf the four surviving original members of the Saar Basin Governing Commission would expire on the 13th of 7etru&ry, Tho present local Member only joined the
C’ x i ,n o-UuO months later and need not therefore be
i'ep . n d novy3
to regards Item 19. Mi, ¿Tames explained that it was met likely that the report of the Economic section of the Committoc oouLd ce received by the time of the Oouncil meeting, The finance section would almost certainly have put in its report hr;
a]	The Touneulon schemoc
b)	The finishing credit scheme.
4
In addition to these 20 items, rtwo others were mentioned which might possibly have to he included.
These were the question of the manufacture of rifles in Danzig( as to which the Council had as yet received no declaration from the Peruvian Government; and the question of the disposal cf refugees from Russia* M, Rappard pointed out that there were a million and half of these, and they created a serious international problem owing to the fact that they possessed no legal protection in the countries to which they had fled and. they created difficulty both economically, sanitarily and politically, since they wore likely to holy U: spread bolshc/isnu
It was a difficult problem for the league utf desk with, it might even bo mere difficult for it to leave it imtouohedc A possible method of dealing with it would bo the appointment of a strong Commissioner to collect full information as to the number and condition of those people and report on the possibility of an emigration scheme for them. He intended to circulate a memorandum on the subject to the
Secretariat
M. M.'nnet said that ho wanted to speak a^out a further qu -sti- n of great importance in the development of the League. Ha hoped that Direct rs would turn the question over in their minds since it was one on which it was urgent fm the Secretariat to have a settled policy as soon as might he.
This was the question of the relations between the Secretariat and the Members of the Council and other Members 'of the League- In Lmdon it had been easier to keep up a close contact:	v’e had there
a complete and influential_ Diplomatic Corps, and leading representatives of most of the members of the League passed through London fr m time to time and were seen by one or another representative of the Secretariat.
In Geneva the situation was very different. There being no facilities ready made, we must in one way or another set to work to recreate the contact we were in danger of 1 a-sing.
His own view of what c^uld best be done was as follows:
1) As rogards representatives of the Council
Each State should appoint a permanent member ~>f the Council with an organism in his own country which should keep him in touch with the different Government Departments interested in League work.
The Council Member should have a Personal Assistant who would soend his time partly in Geneva, and partly in his own capital, or in the case e.g. of the Japanese or Chinese Member, in the Capital where his Chief resided.
T li 0
Personal/
The Personal Assistant should hare a permanent Office in Genera where there would a 1 ways he a cleric to receive and transmit papers uni the like, The positions of personal Assistants should be filled by men who would neither desiro nor be able to form themselves into a Sub-Council, and the Secretariat would have to be on its guard against giving them any ground for doing so, even though it might sometimes seem to be the immediately convenient course They should represent and report to their Council Member, and not their foreign Office, for he would have to represent many other Departments besides the Foreign Office, viz;-The Finisiri'os of .Finance, transports, health, commerce,
War, etc»
It was urgent to do what we cculi in this direction pretty soon, otherwise chance organisations would grow up, in whoso compositions we should have nothing to say
2, Contact with, other Members of the League » -
There wore more than one possible method of establishing this contacte V/o could for instance use the channel of the diplomatic representatives in Berne, Alternatively, and this,he thought the more desirable method, wo might try to induce the Governments to appoint an officer in charge of their League of Nations affairs9 Ho might probably hare to bo an official of the Foreign Officey Ho would from time to time come to Genova and got to know the Secretariat and its work.
Monsieur Mantoux said that there wore already in Geneva a certain number Af permanent Secretaries0 Such had been established by the Greek, Polish and Ohinose Govorhmonts„
LI. Ruppord thought that it night be embarrassing to have a number of such Secretaries living in Geneva and having a certain amount of time on their hands which they
/could
only employ in making work for the Secretariat.
. Dr. Van Hanoi and M. Hornet folt on the other hand that some sort of a start, oven though it might have certain inconveniences, was desirable, in that it provided the rcct from which something much better and more efficient could grow.
M. Rappard said that it would be useful to knew what was the present practice of each of the Governments for which Members of the Secretariat could give this information.
As regards the Swiss Government, it was the practice of the Political Department to turn all papers over first to Professor HUBER,
Dr* Van Hamel daid that in the Dutch Foreign Cffico, a special official had been appointed to deal with all Lcaguo do cumonts.
11.	Monnot outlined the plan which was being, as ho hoped, carried out in Franoo. This was based on the Council and Assembly Ropresentativea, and included a regular mooting of representatives of different Departments interested. Amongst these the Foreign Office would havo perhaps the most important place, but it would in no way be the intermediary between the more technical Departments and tho Secretariat.
1*1. Anziiotti said that the relations between the Italian erganisation and tho Loaguo wore now in a condition of flux owing to tho recent resignation of 11. Tittoni and appointment of M. Imperiali.
Sir Herbert Amos thought that it would be a good thing, when we had reached a stato of fairly fined relations with Governments to send a representative of the Secretariat to seme of the distant Governments and particularly to America to explain the system, and see what could bo done towards improving our contact with them. This idea was generally approved of.
AMEX.
Sl/l ;/2
PH07I3IQNAL AGENDA POX THE NEXT MEETING CP THE COUNCIL.
A. IT5KS ARISING OUT OP ASSEMBLY RESOLUTION ■
lc Appointment of Committee on Amendments to the
Oovonant.
2.	Appointment of Committee cn Article 10 of the Covenant.
3	Appointment	of	Committee	oh	Blockade,
4.	Appointment	of	Committee	on	Opium Traffic -
5.	1ppointmont	of	Committee	to	examine the work
of the Secretariat.
6.	Consideration of Assembly resolutions on reduction of Armaments and kindred questions.
7.	Appointment of auditors of accounts for period ending December 31st, 1920.
0.	Consideration of Assembly resolution on relief of ohildren in countries affoeted by the War.
9.	Consideration of Assembly resolution on intellectual work.
D. OTHER QUESTIONS.
10.	Approval of terms of Mandates.
11.	Appointment of Mandates Commission.
12.	Polish Lithuanian dispute.
13.	Aaland Islands question (if the report is received early enough.)
14.	Polish complaint regarding expulsion of Jews from Austria.
15.	Consideration of certain petitions with respect to treatment of minority clauses.
16.	Minorities in Pinland and Albania.
2
17o Pinal approval of constitution of Danzig„
18c Appointment of four Members of Saar Basin Governing Commission«
19» Consideration of report of Finance section
of Provisional Economic and Financial Committeec 20. Heport ry Secretary General on progress made since last mooting,
( typhus, prisoners of War, etc.)
LEAGUE OF NATIONS.
Distributed to Under Secretaries General	21/10/3
and Directors.
GENEVA.
15th January, 1901.
MINUTE OF DIRECTORS* MEETING EELS ON January 13th*
PRESENT:	The Secretary-General.
Commendatore Anzilotti,
Dr. Nitobe.
Mr. Colban M. Comert M. Mantoux M. Rappard Dr. Hawkling Yen M, Bieler Mr. James
Mr. McKinnon Wood.
Mr. Walters	(Secretary).
The Secretary-General said that M. da Cunha appeared to have now definitely accepted the position of President of the Council. He had expressed his opinion of coming here a month before the meeting.
The Agenda for the meeting might be divided into three categories:
1)	Appointment of Committees called for by Assembly resolutions.
2)	Other action called for by Assembly resolutions *
3)	Current questions.
I.	a) AMENDMENTS COMMITTEE.
He suggested that M. Quinones do Leon should be rapporteur; he was very anxious to cease acting as rapporteur on budget questions. The Committee ought to meet at the end of March, especially in order to be able
to act/
2
to act as a link with, the United States, if it could include a Member whom Americans trusted. This should be the first item on the Agenda - Dr. Van Hamel should be Secretary of the Committee.
b)	COMMITTEE ON LEGAL ASPECTS OP ARTICLE 16.
This Committee should consist purely of Jurists,.
He suggested M. Imperial! as rapporteur, and April or May as date of the meeting. The only really difficult point which it must discuss was whether Treaties must be registered or oould remain unregistered at the risk of the Parties.
The Secretary for this Committee must be found by the Legal Section.
c)	PLCCKALE COMMITTEE.
He preposed M. Imperiali as rapporteur. The Committee might meet in April or May«
d)	STAff? COMMITTEE,
He proposed Me Wellington Koo as rapporteur.
The Committee must meet about March 15th. if its report waa to be in the hands of the Members of the League by June 1st. The Secretary of this Committee would be Mr. Eieler if Sir Herbert Ames agreed.
e)	ARMAMENTS C QMMITTSE.
The rapporteur would naturally be Monsieur Bourgeois. If the proposal for a new Section in the Secretariat went through its Director would be the Secretary of the Committee. It could meet in May.
f)	OPIUM CCMMITTEE.
The Council only had to appoint three assessors.
He proposed that M. Wellington Koo should be rapporteur and Mr, Hawkling Yen, Secretary. The date of the meeting must be decided by the Council, but it should be not later
than April/
3
than April, since, as Mr. Hawkling Yen pointed out, its report had also to reach the Members of the League by June 1st.
g)	COMMISSION F15 LHP CRIED WOMEN IN ARMENIA, e t c .
Mi» Colban pointed out that for this we must await the result of lame Rachel CrowdyTs visit to London.
It seemed to him that we oould not act until the Treaty of Sèvres had been ratified, for re-examination of the debate should that ¿he purpose of this Committee was already to a great extent covered by the dispositions of that Treaty, He thought a short memorandum pointing this out should bo submitted to the Council.
If a rapporteur were necessary, it was agreed that M. Imperial! should be ashed to serve.
11 »	a} declaration about children in countries
impoverished by War.
Rapp ort eur: Monsi eur Hymans.
b) Intelloctual work.
Rapporteur! Mr. FISHES.
0) Publicity of Council proceedings.
Rapporteur:	Mr. Fisher.
d)	Auditing of accounts for second period.
Rapporteur:	Mr. Wellington Eoo.
e)	Armenia.- Monsieur Mantoux said that he had sent to Monsieur Hymans for signature letters requesting his colleagues on the Council or the Foreign Offices concerned, as the case might be, to supply the Secretariat with all possible information. He would prepare the necessary report based cn information received.
III.	a) MANDATES.
The Secretary-General thought we must take
not only/
4 ~
not only B, "but also A.Mandates, though the opinion of the two countries chiefly concerned ought to he ascertained on this point * Ho proposed as rapporteur Monsieur Hymans on loth classes, M. Kappard however pointed out that a certain difficulty arose from the fact that Belgium was one of the countries which would exercise a 1-, Mandate and that there was likely to T o a good deal of discuss L on as to its terms which would centre round a letter written by Monsieur Hymans himselfc It was true that the Conventions under which the Belgian Congo was administered provided for the :Topen doorn and other regulations which made this a very different case from that of the districts adjacent, to Togoland and the Camerocns0
fierertlisXasB it might seem that seeing that the terms of those Mandates had been the subject of previous doliboration between the British French and Belgian. Governments to have a Belgian rapporteur derogated from the; genuineness of the Council1 s deliberations, he suggested that Monsieur Hymans should be rapporteur for k. Mandates and for the Mandates Commission and Viscount Ishii for Bo Mandates, This was agreed to,
b)	Monsieur Kappard. said that ho thought the Mandates Commission would have its first meeting a little before the Assembly meeting.
After the names had been decided at the Council meeting, invitations should bo sent to those concerned telling them that the Council would inform them when they should meet«
c)	Polish-Llthuanian dispute.
Eapporteur:	M. Bourgeois,
d)	Aaland Islands.
The Secretary-General/’
5
The Secretary-General would present a very short note saying when the report might be expected.
e)	Polish complaint.
Rapporteur: Mo Fisher.
f)	- Minority petit ions.-
The Minorities Committee (consisting of the President and two other ilcmbors of the Council) must decide in oach case. Viscount Ishii would probably be the best rapporteur,
g)	Minorities in Finland and Albania.
Mrc Colban said that wo should take no action until Finland and Albania had replied to our letters, save that we should circulate to the Council conies of the letters and a short report setting out the facts, ho rapporteur need be named.
h)	Constitution of Danzig and one or two
other Danzig questions.
Rapporteur:	Mr. Fisher.
j ) Saar basin Governing Commission.
Rapporteur:	Mr. Wellington Koo.
k) Finance Committee's report
Rap p ort <0 ur : M. 1 ourgo oi s .
Monsieur Mantoux said there was another imps ¡'tan t question: namely that of East Galicia. It would be a simple matter to circulate to the Council papers giving an idea of the situation and of the possibility of action to bo taken. Appeals were reaching us from strong Committees, especially in Vienna. Poland was under no Treaty obligation in respect of East Galicia, but the Council could say to the Polish Government that as thoy occupied that territory under the authority of the Peace Conference, they ought to give it
the same/
6
the same rights as they gave, under the minorities Treaty, in their own territories, Alternatively the Council could propose to the Allied Powers who held the legal sovereignty of' tints territory to approach the Polish Government in the same sense» The Secretary General thought the latter proposal was the hotter especially as the former would seom to some degree to recognise Polish sovereignty over Bast Galicia,
Wo oouid send a note to the Allied Powers on the subject. This could even he dono without consulting the Council*
PUS ST Ail REFUG.AES -
Mn Rapparu said that he felt clear that this was an international question. The	had sent a
man to Constantinople to investigate the labour side of it, hut it had many other aspects,. The Russians in Paris had approached both Monsieur bourgeois and M, leygues on the subject. The Serbian Government was also being askocT to lay it before the League and Czeeho Slovakia was also interested- So question-ad whether the League could afford to say, -'this question is too difficult, wo cannot deal with it."
Mr, Colban said that there was an anolcgous case concerning Jewish inhabitants of Russia who wished to bo able to emigrate» This ho considered should be regarded as a Minorities question«, Perhaps wo might do th• some in the case of the refugees if it was decided that the League should take the matter up»
The Secfetary-Genoral said in any case pressure on the League should ccmo from a Government, the bigger the better, and not from the Secretariat, If eg, the French
Government/
7
Government would put it up and would give us a very big man to draw up a scheme of action, we might have some hope of dealing with it successfully,
1	He had had a letter on the subject from the
C,I„0,R. together with a memorandum from a Russian source. This should be circulated to all Members of the League, and then any Government which so decided could take it up.
M. Comert said ho thought wo ought to try to send items of nows to the Agencies »ivory day, For this purpose his section would send every day to every section asking if they could give information for the Members.
Only information which could bo published v.ras wanted together with any explanations to enable the information section to deal properly with the item.
Dr. Fitoho asked whether the Council documents on intellectual work should go to Monsieur Monnet or tb the Secretary-General. The letter was decided on.
The Secretary-General said that he was most anxious that all memoranda for the Council should be finally fixed on the E5th, at latest so as to reach Members full 3 weeks before the Council mot.
LEAG-UE OP NATIONS.
GENEVA.
21/10/3A.
Distributed to:
Under Secretarles-General
aad Directors,
PUBLICATION OP PROCEEDINGS OP TEE ASSEMBLY.
Summary of Decisions taken at Directors' Meeting on 13th January, 1921.
The original scheme of 3 volumes; the first to contain Resolutions and Reports adopted by the Assembly; the second,
Verbatim Report of the Assembly; the third, Proces Verbaux of Committees and Reports of Committees; was discussed at length, and M3. Palmer explained its advantages. He pointed out that it would moan earlicf publication of the results achieved by the Assembly, and the collection of these results in one volume.
In the course rf the disdussion, however, the difficulties of the plan became so evident that the Secretary-General said he was convinced that it could net be carried out,- This was agreed to by the Directors present. It was thon decided :
(1)	That the proceedings should be published in two parts:
Bart 1, Proceedings of the Assembly, Part 2, Proceedings of the Committees. The first part might be in several volumes, if necessary.
(2)	That every document discussed at any meeting should be printed first, and where necessary, any amended version should also be printed, even if this involved a certain amount of reprinting of the same document in an identical or slightly different form. Where a Report was read to the Assembly, it will be printed in the Verbatim Report and not as an annex: but where the full text of the Report was not read by the Rapporteur, the Report will
be printed as an Annex« The text of a Report adopted with amendments, by the Assembly will be printed, as adopted, as an annex. Similar principles will be applied to Committee Papers and Reports.
(3)	Dr. Dixon was authorised to insert subjeot headings in the Proces Verbaux of the Committees, but not to make any alterations in the t6xts,
(4)	The Verbatim Record of the disoussions of the Assembly will to retranslated throughout, arrangements being made to give Mr. Palmer assistance, if possible, from the Translating Section.
(5)	It was decided that the number of the Official Journal containing the Resolutions of the Assembly should be priced for sale at the cost price, and that an edition of 3,000 oopies should be printed. It was agreed that there would not be a large sale cf this document in countries with depreciated exchange if the cost price was charged, but it was thought that it would be given away on a large scale and that the needs of these countries would be met by the cheap unofficial pamphlet mentioned below.
(6)	It was further decided that M.Comert might publish a cheap pamphlet containing a reprint of the Resolutions of the Assembly, as published in the Official Journal, with an introduction which M.Hymans has premised to sign. This will be atrictly an unofficial publication and will be printed separately in English and in French,
15th January, 1921.
H. McK.W.
81/10/4
MINUTES OF A PIRBCST0H3 MEETING HELD IN THE SECRETARY
ffCbHPAJMS ,T<COH. ON WEISES BAY, the 36 th JIJTUW. at 5?. 3 Op • a. Gemvs.
■ »MWMUIPW IM* ■—*	»»I ■ M»1- .-WrtW
FIE SENT: -	The Secretary General
Jir. Nitobe
Sir Herbert Ames
Mr. On ¿'ban
Dr. veu Hamel
Moasieirc Mantonx
Done Rachel 0rowdy
Hr. Hswkliag Yen
Mr.	tera (Secretary )
The Secretary general said that the reaponse to his appeal to have CJounoil Documents ready by the 85th January had been magnificent. We should be able to send out on the following evening the Agenda with all necessary documents, exoept that regarding "A" Mandates, which would follow very shortly after. Monsieur da Ounha had agreed to the list of items and of Rapporteurs submitted to him, though of course it remained to get the oonsent of the various Rapporteurs themselves.
Monsieur Monrot was returning from Paris on Friday and. if the information ho brought necessitated it, there would fcsva to be a further Directors Meeting on Friday or Saturday. In the meantis?. there were but few new developments.
Cue question which had been raised in the past week wan that of a League of Nations stamp. Previous unofficial enquiry her. had no definite results, but we had now been told that the Swiss Government, if approaohed in the matter, would very likely return a favourable answer. Sir Herbert Ames said this was not a question of sending letter« post-free, but of advertising the League, and he thought that for this purpose it would be of considerable value.
He referred to the issue of oommemorative stamps common particularly on the other side of the Atlantic). Mr. Oolban and the Secretary General both declared themselves opposed to the idea. Dr. Nritobe supported the idea of a stamp but thought that it might be a better plan to suggest to the Swiss Government the issue of a commemorative stamp. This suggestion was generally agreed to, but
«2~
it was decided to let the matter rest for the present.
Sir Herbert Ames and Dr. van Hamel said that a seal was more necessary than a stamp. The Secretary General pointed out that the purchase of a seal hearing simply the name of the league had been agreed to. It was a matter for the Establishment Officer to get it made .
Mr. Co lean mentioned, a loiter received from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on Eupen and Malmedy, complaining that we had not submitted to the Assembly the annex to his last note.
This letter further asked that the German Government might 'receive a copy of the Belgian statement on the question which was before the Counoil when it made its decision. There were thus two questions which must be settled by the Council: a) whether or not it should inform the German Government that the decision regarding Eupen and Malmedy was final and could not be gone back upon,
b)	whether it would agree to sending a copy of the Belgian report as asked.
The Secretary General thought that the Council would almost certainly tell the German Government that the matter could not be re-opened but would as an act of courtesy comply with their second request.
Sir Herbert Ames said that the Governments of Esthonia and Xatvia had written to ask whether participation in the Barcelona Conference would involve them in a share of the expenditure. It appeared that the Assembly had taken no decision regarding the share of expenses tb be paid by States hot admitted to the League, but admitted to its teohnioal organisations. He calculated that the amount to be contributed to the expenses of Barcelona by a State of the 6th class was about 2,000 gold francs. He had forwarded the letters to Dr. Van Hamel for a legal opinion. The Secretary General said he thought we.might be liberal in this matter and not ask the States to contribute to the expenses of the Barcelona or other similar conferences. It will be a different matter if and when they become members of the International Labour Office and the-would/
-3-*
would pay their share of its expenses just as Germany v/as doing.
Sir Herbert Ames said that Major Watson, who was temporarily working in his Department, and had made some very valuable suggestions regarding the best-method of regularising the payment of accounts, etc., would have to ask for the co-operation of each Section in carrying out oertai.n of the proposals he would make.
He hoped that though a certain amount of additional work might bo caused to the Sections by these proposals, Major Watson would receive the help he needed«
As regards the Commission of Control of the Secretariat, he did not see how it could begin its work before about the middle of April, seeing that the Barcelona Conference would take away a largd' proportion of some branches of the staff. The number of staff at present planned for Barcelona was 196, of which 125 came from Geneva. It was generally agreed that although it was laid down that the Report of the Commission was to be in the hands of the Members of the League by the 1st June, and although it was highly desirable that this provision should be carried out, it would be better for the Report to be late rather than that the Commission, by meeting too soon, should stultify its own work.
Monsieur Mantoux. referring to the Polish Lithuanian situation, pointed out the necessity of avoiding in any document which might be published on the subject giving the impression that the Council desired to throw all the blame on Lithuania, whereas a certain share of. it was attributable to Poland.
CO ^'Tüí T V TI
r> •. -
LEAGUE OP NATIONS
tribu ted to Under-Secretaries?General
Directors.,'	81/10/5 .
ntflPlDENTIAL.
Geneva.
10th February, 1981,
MINUTE OP DIRECTORS1 MEETING HELD ON MONDAY 7th PSBRUARY 1981.
PRESENT:	Monsieur Monnet
Commendatore Anzilotbi, Dr. Nitohe,
Sir Herbert Ames.
M. Attolioo.
Mr. Colban.
Mo Coinert.
Dr. Van Hamel Mo Rap card.
Dame Rachel Crowdy .
Mr, Nixon.
Mr. Walters (Secretary).
Monaierr Rappard said that the Secretary General’s report on B. Mandates had now gone on«. It was a document very restrained in form. As regards A. Mandates it had been decided not to Bend a memorandum, but simply to re-circulate the drafts. The publication in England of the drafts of the Mesopotamian and Palestine Mandates had led to a certain amount of press comments, unfortunately inspired nuthor by political considerations than by the Covenant which was their constitutional basis,
Mr. Oolban wished to raise a question of general procedure. ’.Then the Secretary General comes to the conclusion that a question may come up at the next Council meeting which interests s Member of the League or some other Body e.g. the City of Danzig, should he wait for the Council to communicate with the interested party or should he act himself? He thought the Secretary General should write himself, informing the parties that the question was on the agenda, and that the presence of representatives anght be wanted by the Council, and send copies of all Council documents officially circulated on the subject. This general rule would be subject to exceptions in special cases. We now had the
/questions
—2—
questions of the Constitution of Danzig- some point of interpretation of the Danzig^Polsnd Treaty- manufacturing of arms- eto. Poland would he represented at this meeting, hut her representative ought to have the documents beforehand-Danzig should, he thought, in this case, as in previous ones, send someone to give the Council any supplementary information it might desire, although Danzig had of course no standing in the matter under the terms of the Covenant*
11» Monnet said there wore really two questions;
1]	The oase of subjects whioh affected Members of the League not represented on the Council,
2)	The immediate case of Danzig,
As regards (l) he agreed that the Secretary General must automatically send documents and invite the parties to be present at the Council meeting. As regards (2) we could act on the analogy of previous oases. In fact, in so far as the constitution question was concerned, this was in the nature of a continuation of a previous discussion.
Mo Attolioo agreed regarding point (1). On point (2) the question was one between the Council .and Danzig. Poland should not be invited.
It was a question whether it might not be desirable to delay the consideration of the whole matter, and in this case, it might serve our end best not to send out any invitations. Mr„Colban thought neither party had a right to be present during the discussion in the Council, and the Council could simply instruct the Secretary-General to inform them of the results of its discussion. This had satisfied them on previous occasions. They ought however to be available to give additional information if required, and for this purpose, they should be given all possible
/ notice.
-3-
notice,
A legal memorandum on the subject might be prepared, and the Council be asked for a decision daring the first days of the meeting,
Dr. Van Hamel agreed with Mr, Colban’s point of view, so far as the constitution question was concerned. Further there were two letters from the Ambassadors1 Conference now being oiroulated and to be dealt with at the next meeting regarding: a) The possibility of Danzig blocking Poland’s external Treaty arrangements, b) The question whether Danzig was entitled to address the Ambassadors1 Conference directe If these two points were placed on the agenda, he thought Danzig and Poland should both be informed beforehand.
M. Anzilotti agreed provided we desired to have an early consideration of the subject.
M.Monnet agreed. Further, as regards the military organisation of Danzig, he was of opinion that it was wisest to oiroulat© General Haking’s report to the Council only, for its information, and leave it to the Members to decido whether to deal with the question then or not.
Dr. Van Hamel said on the general question he thought the proper prooedure was simple. If a subject was definitely placed on the agenda, it was the duty of the Secretary-General to inform the parties interested, give them all official documents and invite them to send representatives without waiting for the Council’s approval.
If it happened that the Council during the meeting decided to deal with such a question, it must also give instructions for the invitation etc. to be sent.
M. Attolico raised the question of the serious blemishes in the constitution of Danzig, In his opinion, it was absolutely an unworkable arrangement to set up a Government whioh retained power 12 years whatever the change of opinion amongst the
/electors
-4'
electors might he. At present pan-Germanism was all powerful in Danzig, this might change in 4 or 5 years, but you would still have a pan-german Government.,
M. Ishii’s report reserved the league’s right to approvo or disapprove any changes in the constitution, it had not reserved the right to propose such changes. This was, he thought, a serious omission.
Hr. Oolban and M, Van Hamel explained that they had previously drawn attention to this and other unfortunate provisions of the Danzig constitution. The British Foreign Office had particularly opposed any attempt to change it, saying that Danzig should make its own constitution, and the Council had decided that the schemo as proposed oonld. he worked, though it had faults. Further the constituent Assembly of Danzig had refused to agree to a five years tenure of power» The pan-German spirit was in faot at work in this and had secured this oligarchic form. It was agreed that the experience of Monsieur Attolico as High Commissioner was an important new factor in the situation and would Justify further representation boing mado to the Council on this point., Monsieur Attolico agreed to draw up a statement for the Council about it.
Dr. Van Hamel mentioned the case of a firm of Match manufacturers in England who desired to register the name league of Nations as a trado mark, and had been told by the British Registrar to ask us whether there was any objection to this. It was generally agreed that whiLlo we had no power to prevent this boing done we ought, on being asked, to say that we did not approve of the idea»
A discusJion followed as to the method of meeting the
e.Tpsns&s of holding a Council meeting away from Geneva,
Sir Herbert Ames pointed out that by the Council’s own action,
/there
-5
there was no item on the budget providing for such expenditure; and that the Assembly had taken precautions against the appropriation for unforseen expenses being used for this purpose,,
Monsieur Mcnnet said that so far as the Secretariat was concerned, all that was necessary was a formal instruction from the Council to make the payments involved and the Council must make its own peace with the Assembly,
Monsieur Comert said that the results of the regular visits paid by Members of his section to various Directors etc« were very disappointing« He thought we should be ablo to give out 4 or 5 despatches every day, but for the last week there had only been one a day»
Monsieur Monnet said that he had felt that the Secretariat, while carrying on its administrative work well, was not doing as well as it should in the matter of giving explanations to the world of the aims and spirit of the work and of how each separate organisation etc, fitted in with the general soheme of the league. 'The technical organisations were now trying to work out a new plan under which the duties of the information section should consist mainly of putting out the material with which they were supplied, the sections themselves being responsible for the latter,
Sir Herbert Ames pointed out that only newspaper men could judge what was of 'hievvs value" rnd what not» He himself had often been surprised in connection with tho administration of his Fund in Canada to see what apparently seemed uninteresting items seise! upon by news-paper men and found a place in large numbers of papers. IShus we had two lines to go upon:
1} The keeping of the name of the league before people:s
/eyes
"4 . d
“6-
eyes by continual publication of large or ana]1 items of news„
2)	The giving out of more elaborate material explaining how each undertaking fitted in with the general work and aims of the league.
Monsieur Attolico thought that much could be done by the establishment of a strong private society in Geneva» With such an organisation we could get all sorts of people of big reputation e.g. Signor Nitti or Colonel House to give addresses at Geneva and visit the Secretariat and keep in touch with the League.
Dr. Fltobe said many international bureaux official or unofficial had recently been sending representatives to call on the Secretariat, most of them desired financial assistance. This we were not in a position to give, and he hoped therefore that any Directors who might be called upon by such representatives, would strongly discourage them from cherishing such expectations,
çooiatj. d& nations
Distributed to Under-Secretarios-General sud Directors.
GENUA, 17th Fohr
1921.
MINUTE GF DIKED T CRS » MEETING HEED
on February 16th, 1921
COSmSNTIAL.
Rrodontî
Sec ro t a? y-Gene ral
Monsieur Monnet
Commenclôto.ro Anzilotti
Dr. Nitobe
Sir Herbert Ames
Professor Attolico
M. C omerfc
Dr. Yan Hanoi
Dame Rachel Crowdy
Mr« Gilchrist
Mr (. flir-cCra
Dr.. Ha-'klifag Yen
Mr. "7ai to rs ( S ec rot ary )
The Sécrétaiy-Gener al said that amongst the subjects of the forthcoming meeting, one of the most difficult vas that of A. Mandates. These mandates as drafted by the French and British Governments were quite good documents in themselves, but they provided for direct administration by the Mandatory until the native Government could be properly organised, and in this way wore contrary to the Covenant. In discussing this ~ith the French Foreign Office, he found them inclined to hold to the texts as drafted, but to regard them as only provisional until the establishment of the organic law of the territory which would be submitted to the Council. The British Government;, however, seemed inclined to agree to amend the drafts at the present mooting.
Another subject on which certain changes had been proposed as compared with the Secretariat mener andnm was that of the temporary Armaments Commission. To tho Commission stggested it was now proposed to add four more "politicians” malting five in all and a total Commission of 21. This plan might be a ood one from the point of view of the American situation.
-S'-
As regards America, the opinion of those he had mot in England seemed to be that there was little hope that they would enter the League this year. All advised that the Longue should go ahead and take no heed of the U.S.Ao which was now violently anti-European and sure to turn down all propositions made from this side.
He did not think this would last, but it soemod to bo new so strong that it was oven unlikely that America would initiate a Conference on Disarmament; the idea of a big Havy was popular with thorn.
He desired to say a word regarding the Staff Committee. This Committee was in no way intended to supersede the Directors' Hooting.
It was set up to carry out the Assembly's request to him to appoint an Internal Committee on questions of personnol. It would, ho thought, deal solely with questions of appointments, dismissals, etc.Jÿ and not with questions of general organisation. Such questions crust obviously be dealt with privately. Any Direct or who desired ni git be informed of the results of its deliberations and Directors received memoranda on ary questions as to which they were specially interested.
The Committee of enquiry to bo nominated by the Council would probably start work on about A or il 15fcli. Ho asked Directors to prepare a statement regarding the work dealt with by thoir respective sections.
He tliought too, that it was necessary to see that all the staff of each section did a full working day. Sir Herbert Ames said that the Committee might also appreciate having short statements regarding the pfcevious careers of Members of sections; it was agreed that this vould be very useful.
The Secretaiy-General said that the Commit toe of enquiry would ad so probably deal with the question of gold francs, v’e might therefore let the matter sleep for the present until they had put in their report. The Staff Committee had, however, decided that in the case of all salaries up to £600 a year (12,000 gold francs), the value of the pound sterling
or... «
-3-
or of 20 gold francs should be kept up to not less than 24 Swiss francs.
He asked Directors to lot him know on the following day of any desired they might have as regards the order on the agenda of their special subjects for the Council Meeting. Evidently the publicity question must be taken first ; and it seemed likely that it would bo wise to nominate the big Commissions rt an early date.
Commerdatore Anz 11 otti said that he desired to draw the attention of the Secretariat to the possibility indicated both in private letters and in press statements that President Harding muld call a Conference on International Lav. This possibility made a great difference to the question which had previously been discussed in turn by the Jurists' Committee, the Council and the Assembly, Could we not fix on a policy beforehand? though he did not suggest any opinion as to whether the predictions of the Press ’:ould be fulfilled or not. It was significant that Mr. Soot had always urged the importance of taking up again the Hague Conferences. If the United States did issue ah invitatiesi it was likely that many States which had been against it during the Assembly would be in favour of it. It was a matter we could not wisely disregard.
The S e orot a ry- Sene r al s~ id he thought it was difficult for us to propose ary action to the Council in view of what the Assembly had decided. He did not think it probable that the United States would call such a Conference, and if they did, ho thought it would be a failure, and that the League should have nothing to do 1 ith it. 27 States had already signed the Court Statute and they could not turn round and join a now scheme now.
lion si our Attolico agreed "ith the Sec ret ary-General and thought that the question was a difficult one, our policy on which ought to bo considered at length beforehand.
Dr. Yen Hamel thought wo could not decide our policy until we
knew
-4~
knew of the form Hording* s proposals would take. Ho thought it desirable to have a Conference on International Private Law, very undesirable to have one on the laws of Vnr.
Comcndatovo tn^ilotti said ho had a further point to raise:	The Court could only bo established when its statute
had boen ratified by 24 Members. So far 26 States had sigacd
havp
and only one ratified. It was not likely we should/24 ratifications by May, yet this was necessary in order to get the nominations of Judges ready for the Assembly in September*
Could wo not try and arrange for conditional nominations to bo mado at the arbitral Court of the Hague, if not, he did not see that the Court could be established in 1922.
Hr. Van Hamel and Ilonsieui- Attollco both expressed the opinion that we should take the risk if necessary of asking for nominations before the ratification of 24 Members had boen received. This was generally agreed to.
Commerdatore Anzi 1 o11i said the Swedish Minister at Berne had received from his Government the Act of Ratification of the Statute; and had asked him whether he could send it to us by post or must come in person to deposit it hero. He was not sure of the answer to give. It was agreed that we could not oblige the Minister to come here, but that he should be told ho ’"ould be ■'■’elcomod if he did so.
Dr* Van Hamel spoke of the mooting taking place on February 16th and 17th at the. instance of the Comite International do la Croix Rouge, to discuss hat could be done about the Russian refugees. The C.I.C.R. had stated that the question ' ould be brpught up at the Council by M. da Cunha, and that Monsieur Bourgeois would support the proposal that it may be taken in hand by the League.
Dome Rachel Crowdy said that it had been made clear at the
meet ing„...
-5-
noeting by the Members of the Secretariat present that they could express no opinion as to -hat action the- Council of tho League could talce. In tho discussion which followed the difficulties of any action doing tafcon by tho League, more especially: (a) tho question of finance; (b) the question of relations -ith the Soviet Government wore emphasized,,
Monsieur Comort a shod whether it - ould bo necessary for tho Council to talto ary resolution regarding the publicity of its discussions and decisions„ The Socrotaiy-General said ho thought that none was required. Monsieur Conort said that as regards tho general publicity of the Council Meeting, a statement had booh given to the Pross a few days previously, covering in a goner .1 mahner the various items on tho agenda. Separate memoranda to the number of 18 or so had also boon prepared which could be shown to any member of tho Secretariat who wished to see them. They had not yot been sent out.
Ho ashed whether it was agrood in principle that all the new Commissions to be s~t up should meet in Geneva.
Th© reply was in the affirmative,
SOPESA DES NATICN3
21/10/7
Die trioutod to Under Secretaries	QHKEVA,
General and Directors.
March 9th, 1921.
CONFllUdMlAL
MINUTES OF IIRFC TORS 1 MEETING held on
MONDAY, MARCH 7th, 1981.
PRESENT:	Secretary General
Coran. Ansilotti
Dr. Nit ohe
Mi Cellan
Sir Herbert Amos
Mr o Sweótscr
Dane Rachel Crowdy
Major Button
M. Toledano
M. Forrier
Miss ’.Vi Is on
Mr. JTLoyd
The Secrotary General said that he hid. two points .»hich he would like to discuss « tho first about postage, the second about publication of the Proces-Terbal of the Council Meeting.
Svass postage abroad has recently been increased to 40 centimes, compared with 25 caatimes in French money in France,
A proposal has been made, that the league dooaid send its letters by courrier to Annemasse, If this .«re done there would be a saving of about £1500 a year. The general view was that it was incompatible with the dignity of the League, and might create a bad effect on public opinion if this course were adopted, M„ Rap par d was in favour of applying to the Swiss Government for free postage, or, alternatively, far the uso of Swiss stamps at the old rate of 25 centimes surcharged by the Swiss Government for the league. Sir Herbert antes was in favour ox trying to arrange »»ith the Swiss Government for a special League stamp.	It was agreed that there was no
objection to correspondence md jackets being taken by the courrier to Paris and despatched from the Paris office of the
-2-
League* It was also agreed to take up tjie question verbally v.ith the Swiss Government, and try to get tholr cons ont to use 25 centime stamps specially surcharged.
The Secretary General explained that it had to be decided whether the Proces-Verbal of the recent Council Meeting should be published in the Official Journal, or as a spcparato document.
contract had already been made with a firm of printers in Lyons to print it in foolscap size. This had been done in order to save money, but the Lyons printers were only under contract to do 80 pages per week; the whole Procès-Verbal would probably take about 5 weeks. Mr. Sweotscr was in favour of having the Procès-Verbal included in full in the Official Journal in its ordinary size. Mr. Colban urged that it was more handy and readable if printed in foolscap size like previous Pro cos-Verbaux of the Council. Sir Herbert Junes suggested that a condensed report might appear in the Official Journal with the complete record in separate form.	Finally it m.s decided that the
Official Journal should c ont fin es before the rapporteurs1 statements and Résolut ions of the Council, with references to "the complete Procès-Verbal. The Procès-Verbal itself will be published as a separate publication - the first of a new series. After the next Assembly the question of altering the size of the Official Journal to fohlscap, so as to make it more convenient to include lengthy official documents like the Procès-Verbaux, will be considered. Sir Herbert Ames pointed out that this change should not take place before the end of the year of subscription, viz. December 1921. M. Perrier undertook to see about hurrying up the printing of the Proces-Verbal at Lyons.
i *.
a»
Confident ial. LL^GU^, gm ih,.iIOi! j .	21/10/8
Geneva. 17th March,1921
III. Llh- OP DL.ihCTO.ao1 MILT IDG EJJ Oh MmKCH 16th, 1921, iEnmiUt ■
secretary General
Ivi. nnzilotti
Dr. hitole
Sir Herbert Ames
Dr. Van Kernel
Mr. 0 olh an
M. Mantoux
Prof. Kappard
Dr. Havkling Yen
Mr. Jr v e s
Mr . Sweatser
Mr. ./alters (Secretary)
the oecretary-General said there were no im ortant developments since the last meeting.
The Membership and action or the various Commissions was gradually being settled, The ¿amendments Commission would hold its iirst meeting in Geneva on ¿r ril 6th, I his had been agreed to by the resident, Mr. ^alfour, although Li, Viviani, who left for the United otates this week, would not be back in tine, this first meeting however V;Ould be a preliminary one, and would , rcbably oonxine ioself to & ointing a sub-Committee to discuss the more strictly legal amendments and to ma 'ping out ite general scheme of work. Its second meeting night per ha. s be in the middle of May.
The first meeting or the armaments Commission would probably take place at the beginning of May, but this depended lo some extent on it. Viviani.
The Commission of err uiry was to meet on April 15th, and \.e must be beginning to get ready ior them.
2
of the members of the section. He thought the Commission would not stay very long, per hays 10 days here and 5 at the
I.1.0.	-hey would onlg want, he thought, a bird's oye view ox each section. He expected that during their first clay here, he would have a general discussion with them and that alter that, they would have a talk with each jirector in turn, and that for this purpose it would be useful to have a document ready from each oection as a basis of conversation. Hr. BIli'HB was to act as secretary and be responsible xor collecting these documents.
as re ards the cost of living, which was one of the points the Committee would have to take into consideration, it would be a good thing to have some reliable figures showing how the index number of cost of living in Geneva compared with that in London. He proposed that the Economic ¿section might undertake this. A discussion followed regarding the basis on which such figures should be drawn up. IJM. Man to ux and ^agpard urged that an index number based on averages was nearly always misleading, and that the most reliable test was a comparison of actual
rices paid in Geneva and in loudon. In articular as P
regards rent coc/arison was almost impossible and. on this point what the Committee ought to be su lied with was a s cate merit of the rents demanded for oilier ent sized flats, furnished or unfurnished, in airier em parts of the town.
If. haggard mentioned that useful index figures were issued by the Swiss Co-o =erative ow.'. ¿ties which generally shoved that Geneva rices were amongst the highest in Switzerland.
Sir Herbert Ames pointed out that a useful way
- 3~
crf conpaurLog xvoert rif living in iiijjereirt -towns was to
compare i-ercontages 01 income: (a) spent 04 essentials Co) available for non-essentials.
Mi. Golban thought it would be useful for the Commission to have figures for its ev-n use in drawing up a report, but that they would base their conclusions mainly on what they were told in conversation by trustworthy Members of the Secretariat.
It was decided that the economic section should get out a statement giving xiguros ox the com arative cost of living. If necessary it would issue to the secretariat in the jecretary General's name a questionnaire, whether on the lines of that issued by the Labour Orfioe or in some other form. But this should not bo done unless they find it neoessary.
Hhe Jecretary General said the Barcelona Conference seemed to be going quite veil and Monsieur nitoliec's latest messages were very hopeful, but did not say when he thought it would end.
Ho note had yet arrived from Germany.
He proposed to go away on Easter Sunday for a fortnight's holiday.
^ short discussion followed regarding the publicity of Council meetings and that to be given to the work of the Commissions in Geneva. On this point hr. Van Hamel said that the first meeting, of the naaendments Committee will .probably simxly issue a communi ud stating that it had met; later meetings would no doubt as far as ;;ossible give summaries of the work actually done..
air erbert Ames said that he would like the Directors to consider whether we ought not to plan beforehand
4
to make their stajr in Geneva pleasant ior the embers of various Commissions.
Iu. Rappard drew the attention to the situation cieated from the oint- of Kiev/ of American opinion by Sir Robert Borden’s refusal to servo on the Amendments commission ancl by ^ . Yiviani’s visit to the United states which in s ite of official statements to the contrary, it might confidently be eicpected that he would discuss the League’s relations to the United States.. ihe secretary General said he had some hope, though not a very strong one, that Air Robert Borden mi gut reconsider his decision.
If. Rappard mentioned that at the last meeting it had been decided to discuss the question o± postage with the S.iss authorities, hut that no s ecial person had been told oil ior this duty. 'ihe becretarj General thought that M. Att-olicQ on his return from Ben colons might he asked to undertake it.
M. Rappard read a letter which he had received from the '..omen’s International league for Peace and. .reedom asking him to lecture to their summer school at .^alzburg. Tt was agreed that M. Rappard should, if his plana allowed, give this lecture as a private person, not as a Member oi the Secretariat.
M. Rappard said that he had been asked by several Members of the secretariat to lecture on the subject of Mandates, and he thought it might ho a good plan for the Directors to give such lectures from time to time on the work of their section. i'his would he of interest to many very intelligent Members oi the secretariat who from the natur e or their work were debarred from acquiring a g-,eheral knowledge
of its work-.
5
but
t lic-
it was agreed that this was that it would first be considered ,tair association.
a very useful idea by the Council of
Dr. Yarn Hamel said that lectures or speeches might
be arranged to be given in .eneva by some of the eminent
persons who came here for ..ommissions. It was agreed that
this would be a very excellent thing and Dr. Van Hamel was *
asked to discuss it further with M. Rappard, it being understood that such lectures would not be given under the auspices ox the ^ecretaiiat.
*
L2.-GIT:, OIj‘ fi.VJIO-J'S	2l/lO# QA
Geneva.
18th March, 1921.
MINUTLs OP bPbC L-I DIRECTORo' MILTING E .ID ON	17 in the fc.G.'s ROOM, TO DISCUS3
IMLIhi)I...Tli . CTION ..JlblNG OUT OP GMRM.JT NOTE.
Secretary General
Commendatore —nzilotti
bir Herbert .ones
Mr. Colban
M. Mantcux
M. Rappard
Mr. Nison
Ur. Hawkling ^en
Mr. Sweetser
Mr. ’.'/alters (¡secretary )
The b.G.Said th&t the German covering note asked th&t the memorandum should be circulated to the Council. It was clear therefore that we should immediately send an acknowledgment saying that we were doing what they asked*
The note had also been given out for publication immediately on receipt. It now remained to dedide whether any further immediate action was required.
M. Mantouz said that the secretariat ought to seem to take the least possible iniative. i?er-haps Monsieur Monnet might enquire what was Monsieur bourgeois* opinion, but it ’ould be a mistake to send a Member of the secretariat, specially, to Paris or nondon at present. The s.G. agreed that there was no immediate hurry. The document discussed legal points as to whether the allied action was justified under the Treaty and ended with a.n appeal for the matter to be deal-t with under article 17. The allied Governments must he given time 'bo ®o raider the ar-
SONFIDMTIaL
PlhbnNT:-
-3-
gum-jnis. It was no gucd to go now and ask: wh..t should be done. Perhaps eventually the best method would be for the supreme Co unoil to reply through the ^ecretary-General and thus to stave off the danger' of a crisis by a public controversy through the intermediary of the >->ecretaria t.
lx, Mantoirx pointed out that the German argument is based on the idea that the Allies claim to be acting under the 'treaty. It wou}.d be of great interest to us to see the official note which presumably followed Lloyd George's declaration, personally doubted whether the allies were basing their action on the treaty. If they claimed to be exercising "peaoeful reprisals", the German argument fell flat, but League inte vention became more imperative, if the allies believed that they had legal justification for their action, the Ge nans night reasonably ask them to argue the matter in the Council.
Oomnondatore Anzilotti said tha t he thought it was not necessary now to disouss the right or wrong of the German case. The immediate point was Germany's appeal to
article 17. It was far the Council to deoidc what action
Y	«	"
should be taken on this appeal. Juridically it could perhaps act without actually meeting, but in so important a case, there 'rere practical objections to this. In any case, tinder the Covenant, only the Council could decide on the application of article 17; the oeoretary General’s duty was to give the Council the chance to act by cir-
i	’	.
culating the German note.
-3-
The secretary General agreed and pointed out that unless some otato Member of the League moves in tie matter, no special Council meeting can tato place. He had no power to call one without action by a Member of the League.
lip Mantoum said it was I very important to male this point clear to the public. 3ae public was apt to t hi nil of the League as capable of talcing action apart from its individual Members. 7e ought to emphasize tie point that the responsibility in the present ease rests with the Governments of the Memoers»
Mr. Jwestser said that the information section proposed to publish the following day the Gorman covering letter and the 3.G-. ’s reply,. On the following day they would lilce to publish an interview, with some authoritative person, in which the above aspect of the case could bo brought out. a discussion followed as to the desirablility of such an interview and the person who should give it. It was suggested that:
1)	ihe secretary General should give it himself.
2)	oomoone in the position of Lord Robert or M. Venizelos should give it.
3)	M. da Gunha who arrives in Geneva shortly was considered by Kr.bweetser to be the best person.
Mr. Oolban and Dr. Mitobo thought it was dangerous to make statements too soon, and it would be better to wait 48 hours after the -publication of the note, in order to see what was the sttidude in She press This was generally agreed to , as the publication of the Gorman covering note and the a.C-.1 a repljr would tide over the gap.
The Meeting then agreed on the tent of the o.G.’s
reply
13 iG-lE OF I”2I0E3
:i/io/4cj
niidential
uQ.'.jGTti,
March 23rd, 1921
stributed to Directors of Sections
Memo by the Soorote.ry General
I	have received from Ir, kAJSI’OUZ the attached memo, which he has prepared for ultimate distribution to the -ie Libers of the Commission of Enquiry who will probably meet here on April 15th,
It soems to rae to fill the requirements ox the case so admirably that I an circulating it to all directors of Sections as it may provo an excellent and helpful model, the general lanes of which tho report for the Commission of each particular Section might well follow.
_ OLITIQur.
GEEEVE, le 21 Mars 1921.
EAL10RT SUE IA C CMP OS ITM, LES FOIETIOUS ET I»ACTIVITE DS LA Si/OTIOH POLITIQUE.
La section Politique t pour fonctions à»assister crétaire Généralt ot avec lui le Conseil et 1» ,1ssemblée, tiens l’étude et le réglé liront de toutes les questions d’ordre politique (qui se oo-sont devant la Société. Les ciu.estions affectant lo statut territorial ou l’indépendance des Etats, et toutes colles qui peuvent donner lieu & 1 ’ jjj.icaoion dos articles 10 et 1? du Pacte, intéressant la Section Politique. Elle est également appelée à collaborer avec les Sections Ec0noLiicu.es, des Mandats, des Commissions administratives et des Minorités, et &’Information, la Section Politique est chargée de la corres_.oiiu.anco et des mémorandums ou rapports relatifs aux questions la concernant, ainsi que de toutes mesures d’exécution des décisions du Conseil ou de l’Assemblée sur ces questions*
Elle se compose d'un Directeur, de Cinq membres, d’une secrétaires, et de deux secrétaires- sténo-dactylographes (plus une secrétaire temporaire). Il ne peut y avoir entre ces membres une stzicte division du travail, tous devant, selon les besoins * être employés à toute réduction, voûte x’oohercho, ou toute démarché jugée utile par le Directeur et le Secxu taire-Générai. Toutefois, c omiue il est necessaire que la section soit toujours en état de traiter en pleine connaissance des situations et des précédents les questions dont oilo peut être saisie,, il est entendu que chacun de ses membres doit selon sa compétence et ses occupations antérieures, se tenir v*lu.f: articulièrevient informé des événements qui intéressent cei tains Pays ou groupes de pays -
Un membre, II. Denis (Français), outre la part qu’il prend a lu direction générale des travaux de la section, s’occupe plus spécialement des questions relatives a la Pologne ot aux Etats ae I*Amérique lstine; deux membres, - • Abraham (Anglais) et -c. ce î'ontenach (Suisse), suivent les affaires ae l’Europe centrale et ues
r
Balkans; uxj nombre L. Slavik (Chèque) se tient-au. courant des affaires ¿e Russie et des paye limitrophes; un membre, M. Tare (Italien) est chargé des questions asiatiques. Une partie de in ur temps, ainsi que du temps du Directeur, est nécessairement consacré à ce travail d*in-fonaation générale sans lequel la Section serait incapable de s’acquitter avec compétence de ses devoirs, la secrétaire de la Section,
Mrs Spiller (.Anglaise), veillo à l’expédition et à la distribution de la correspondance et des rapports, aux relations avec les autres Sections, à la tabulation et au classement des documents.
Les affaires qui ont le plus occupé la Section Politique depuis sa formation, ont été les suivantes:
1°- Question Arménienne, qui a donné lieu à une correspondance fréquente avec les membres de la Société et à plusieurs démarches auprès des principales puissances alliées et associées (Session du Conseil d*Avril 1920, à Paris, et Session de l'Assemblée en Novembre-décembre 1920 à Genève).
2°- Organisation et documentation d'une mission d’enquête en Russie à la suite de l’invitation adressée au Conseil do la Société des Nations par le Conseil Suprême des puissances alliées. Ce projet a été finalement abandonné en présence de l’opposition des Soviets (Session du Conseil de Mars 1920, à Londres et de Mai 1920 à
Rome).
3°- Plainte de la Perse au sujet de la violation de son territoire par les Soviets misses (Session du Conseil de juin 1920, à Londres ).
4°- Différend entre la Suède et la ¡Finlande au sujet des Iles d’Aland
(Sessions du Conseil de Juillet 1920, à Londres et de Septembre 1920, à Paris). Organisation d’une commission de rapporteurs (Octobre 1920) qui a visité Stockholm, Helsingfors et les Iles d’Aland en Novembre et Décembre 1920. Les rapport de cette Cora-
5°-
iiii ¡2 jL.
de lu
ou est terminé et la question sera inscrite à l'ordre du prochaine Session du Conseil.
jour
Di ifs rend entre 1930, a Paris, 1920, a Genève
lu Pologne et la Lithuanie (Sessions de Septembre à*octobre 1920 à Bruxelles, de Novembre Décembre st de Février 1921, a Paris.) Organisation d'une
Mission de Contrôle (octobre 1920) et ¿’une Commits ion Civils:, chargée de présenter au Conseil un plan ds consultation populaire et à l’envoi ¿’une force de police internationale dans le territoire contesté. (La correspondance entre le Conseil, les gouvernements intéressés, les deux Commissions et la Section Politique, forme la matièro de deux volume s in-octaVo, dont le premier a été publié en décembre 1920).
Un membre, au moins, a été retenu constamment à Paris du milieu de Septembre au milieu d'Octobre, puis du milieu de Janvier au milieu de Mars pour assister le Comité du Conseil, présidé par LU Léon Bourgeois, et chargé de suivre l'affaire entre deux sessions. Un membre, au moins, sera constamment à la disposition de Llî Hymans pendant les négociations qui doivent s "ouvrir à Bruxelles au milieu du mois d'avril.
5°- Différend entre la Bolivie, le Pérou et le Chili, au sujet des territoires d'Ârica et de Tacna. Cette question a donné liou, pendant l'Assemblée (novembre Décembre 1920) a de nombreux pourparlers entre les Puissances intéressées et entre celles-ci et le Bureau de l’Assemblée.
Plaintes des Ruthènes de la Galicie Orientale contre le régime
de l’occupation polonaise (le Conseil a décidé, d&nessa session
de février 1921, à Paris, de transmettre les nombreux documents
reçus et examinés par le Secrétariat à la Conférence des Ambassadeurs ) .
6°- Admission de nouveaux Membres dans la Société des Nations. La
Section a préparé les documents de la 5è Commission de l’Assemblée, à laquelle elle a fourni son Secrétaire (M. mantoux), ainsi que ceux des trois sous-commissions (M.M. Abraham, de Montenach et Varé ).
La Section a eu à s’occuper d’un assez grand nombre d'autres questions qui n'ont pas donné lieu à des délibérations du Consei... ou de l’Assemblée, ou qui ont été traitées principalement par une autre Section: Note du Gouvernement îchéco Slovaque aussujet de la concentration de troupes polonaises dans la région de Teschen (décembre 1920); Notes du Gouvernement albanais su sujet de l'occupation Par les trouves grecques et Yougo slaves de localités situées en deçà
«
-4-
de la frontière de 1913 (février 1921); du Honténégro au sujet de l'indépendance
lobes de l'ancien Gouvernement de ce pays; questions relati-
ves k la ville de liantsi3 (en collaboration avec la section des Commissions administratives); question de 1'assistance aux réfugiés russes (eu coilfebovation avec la Section d'Hygiène et d'Assistanoo);
etc.
SITUATION DES MEMBRES DS LA SECTION POLITIQUE AYANT LEUR
ENTREE ATT SECRETARIAT
iBRAEAM iGérald.), ¿6 ans, officier d'Etat Major de 2é classe (grade de major) à l’amirauté de Londres.
DENIS (Pierre), 37 ans, professeur à l’Université de Buenos Après. Mobilisé en 1914.
KANTOUX (Paul), 44 ans, professeur à l’Université de Londres. Mobilisé en 1914: Sec ré taire-Interprète ¿es Conférences entre les Couve marnent s Alliés et de la Conférence de ¿a Paix.
MONTENACH, de (Jean Daniel), 28 ans, Attaché de Légation (Service diplomatique suisse à Paris).
EIA7IK jYIadimir), 36 ans, Conseiller de Légation (Service Diplomatique
Tchéco Slovaque). A rempli pendant la Conférence de la Paix, les fonctions de Secrétaire de la Délégation Tchéco Slovaque,
(Daniele), 41 ans, Premier Secrétaire d’Ambassade (4 ans déanoienne-té)„ A rempli pendant 4 ans (1916-1916) les fonctions de Chargé d’Affaires à Pékin.
PILLER (Mrs) Secrétaire de la Section, Secré'è#ire de la King Alfred School à Londres.
LEAGUE OF HATIONS
21/10/10
Geneva, 24th March 1921
irectors.
MINUTE OF DIRECTORS1 MEETING HELD ON MARCH 23rd, 1921
CONFIDENTIAL
PRESENT:
Secretary General M. Anzilotti Dr. Nitobe Sir Herbert Amt>j Mr Colban M. Mantoux Dame Rachel Crowdy Mr Nixon Dr. Eawkling Yen M. Nogueira Mr Sweetser Mr Walters
(Secretary)
Some discussion took place at the beginning of the meeting regarding the publicity given to the German Note.
Sir Herbert Ames suggested that if we published a reply drafted by the Allied Governments we should republish the original note at the same time. Mr Sweetser agreed with this proposal.
The Secretary General said that the news from Barcelona seemed satisfactory. The Delegates were working in a cordial spirit and there seemed a chance that even better agreements would be reached than had been hoped for.
Regarding the Commission of enquiry into the Secretariat (of which M. Noblemaire had formally accepted to be a member), he had received from M. Mantoux a brief account of the work of his section on the lines proposed at the last meeting.
This account seemed to him to be so admirable that he was circulating it to all Directors.
There was one question whio.h the Staff Committee had recently touched on and had decided to refer to the Directors Meeting. It was that of the system by which stenographers were attached to special sections. The original idea was that each section should have two stenographers permanently attached, who, when not actually doing stenographic work, could do any other work such as indexing, looking up papers etc. required by the
2
section; and that when that section needed more stenographers, they shou&d get them from the Pool, and that people got from the Pool should he used purely as stenographers. At the present moment certain sections were taking people from the Pool and using them continuously, not merely as stenographers, hut also for clerical work. He thought this was not a very satisfactory position, and that either the system should he changed, or else it should he more strictly adhered to. At present the salaries of people who really worked entirely for one section came on the budget of the Pool, while it was difficult for Miss Horn to organise her services.
for purely stenographic work, Miss Horn would attempt to send the same person each time to any section, hut those people should return to the Pool as soon as their particular stenographic job was done. The alternative was to increase the number of stenographers in the sections and naJie a corresponding decrease in the Pool. He asked Directors to think the matter over.
M. Mantoux remarked that sometimes the temporary helpers showed extraordinary capacity for clerical work. Mr Oolban said that in his section there was a 3rd assistant, called not Assistant-Secretary and Stenographer, hut clerical assistant .
The Secretary General asked Mr Dixon to explain shortly the position regarding Austrian finances and the League.
Mr Dixon said that the Allies had recently decided to suspend indefinitely their claims for reparations from Austria and also on the security given by Austria for relief credits. They hoped to put Austria on her feet again by the application of the ter Meulen scheme. The Financial Committee of the League was going to meet in Paris in a few days to consider the application of the scheme to Austria.
3
If this was carried out it might mean that a sort of Advisory Board of Control would he set up in Vienna to advise the Austrian Government on Financial questions. This would mean a separate organism, supported hut not controlled hy the League. If things wont right, it would not require any financing hy the league.
Monsieur Man tome wished to direct the attention of the Information Section to the fact that M. Jaspar, in a recent declaration on the subject of passports, made no reference to the fact that the principles which he was supporting had been already recommended hy the Conference held on the subject under the auspices of the league. Somehow, it seemed desirable to try and keep before men's minds in such cases the fact that the impulse to what they were thinking had come from some action of the League.
The Secretary General remarked that arising out of the Passports Conference, letters had been sent to various Governments asking them to reply, stating what action they were able to take to carry out its recommendations. On M. Attolico’s return from Barcelona it would be desirable for his section to take up this matter again.
M. Man tour briefly exposed the Po lish-Lithuanian situation. The Brussels Conference was proposed by the Council to each Government with certain conditions attached. The Lithuanians have substantially accepted. The Poles first telegraphed that they accepted, but added that a letter would follow or. the subject. That letter had now reached us and made rather serious reservations.
In spite of this it was the policy of the Secretariat to try and get pourparlers started at Brussels as soon as possible, for otherwise negotiations had to go through such circuitous channe Is.
4
Mr ColDan said he had heard privately from more than one source that some of the States which had signed Minority Treaties might make a protest against the circulation by the Secretariat of petitions on these subjects. Our action in this matter was however based strictly on the instructions of the Council contained in Signor Tittoni Brussels' report. However he would be interested to know whether any suggestions were forthcoming proposing a change of x^rooed'ure.
1*1. Man to me suggested that when a petition was received, it might be communicated first to the Government specially concerned, with the notification that it would be circulated a fortnight later, and that any comment which that Government liked to send in would be circulated with it. Another suggestion was that it should be circulated to the Council only.
After some discussion a general agreement was reached to the affect that no change ought to be made in the present procedure. The method proposed by Monsieur 1.1 an toux was going beyond the provisions of the Treaties.
The Secretary General said he did not think that the countries concerned would bo inclined to make an official protest since this would suggest that they were not prepared to carry out the Treaty. If they realised that wo were doing no more than carrying out the express instructions of the Council they would feel no resentment.
M. Anzilotti said that he intended to go to Barcelona after Easter, but that the actual date was not fixed.
Dr Hawkling Yen referred to a communication from the French service asking that in the case of Commissions which would deal with matters interesting the French colonies from 6 to Q months notice should be given. Dame Rachel Crowdy said that she had found exactly the same feeling in regard to
y
the white slave questions in which distant possession of both Great Britain end France had some importance.
The Secretary General said that he recognised the force of the plea, but the Council only oould decide and the cir-
cumstances under which the present Commissions were set up made such a delay impossible, as in would mean the Commissions would meet after the second Assembly-
L .:^GUl;	0F N&TIONS
81/10/11
Distributed to Under Seoretaries-General and Directors.
Geneva,
March 29th, 1921.
Dote irom the Secretary-General.
This essay of Mr. Fujisawa of the Information Section is circulated for the attention of Under Secretaries-General and Directors«
. E PruiSEiiT ATTITUDE OF JaPsJ JO <URDo i'HE DENGUE OF IUTI0N8
1.__Introduction.
Before beginning to make clear the present attitude of Japan towards the League of Nations, it will be certainly worth ivhile to trace back a little our recent national history in connection with the political influence of Western Europe and North America.
a
It is/well recognised fact that Japan has been since about sixty years ago always influenced spiritually and materially by the political, social and economic vicissitudes of Western .urope and North iiierica* It is consequently no wonder that the or Id war exercised a tremendous influence upon our people and speedily contributed to upset Old Japan which could no longer stand before the shrill cry of world reconstruction. In the world’s history never has a war given birth to such an amount of noble declarations upon humanity. During the war many statesmen, public men and thinkers in urope as well as in „merica seemed to vie with one another in pouring out grandiose eloquence in declaring justice and equity to be the new bases of international relations in the future. These sublime proclamations aroused a conscioizsness of humanity among the Japanese and they came to
believe that future international relations would be utterly governed by this new spirit. The speeches of Mr. .vilson and. his numerous messages to the Congress Jigvc boen translated and published by one Japanese press, livery declaration coming out of the mouth oi Mr. /vilson and every phrase dropped from his pen referring to the war have been passionately read and studied by millions of Japanese.
This new trend nourished by Jilsonism, found its most remarkable expression In the claw: for democracy by the Japanese people, and this national convict: on in - the idea of democracy became strong and firm when Germany was at last defeated by the .illiet*. On the other hand, this is to oe considered as a spiritual revolution in Japan, because the idea of democracy is closely connected with that of individualism. The old Japan founded upon the vague idea or collectivism could no more maintain its ground, a,new people's Japan was going to emerge from the ruin of Old Japan. Throughout the country new European thoughts in favour of individualism have been rapidly propagated by means of newspapers and obher publications; professors of Imperial Universities, previously looked upon as blind interpreters of old Japanese thought, turned to support this progressive tendency and radically fostered individualistic ideas among the students. The necessity for domestic reform has never been so keenly felt in our country.
These circumstances, originated by democracy, at last ave rise to a universal suffrage movement politically, and labour problems economically. These t- o questions deserve special attention in Japanese recent history. S^iar as the development of the universal suffrage movement is concerned one nas to go back to tne formation of Marshal Terauchi’s Cabinet, which, took place in 1916. This Cabinet was in existence only two years on account of its anachronistic cnaracter. The public had become
tired of t..e colourless policy of its militaristic and bureaucratic Ministry. Its Chinese policy of befriending the northern militarist faction as against the southern civil faction in the chronic trouble between the two, the misguided diplomacy towards America and Siberia, arid the indiscreet official interference in economic affairs, accelerating thereby the upward tendency of the market - all these troubles gave a succession of rude shocks to the Cabinet.
The rice riot that broke out in august 1918 throughout the length and breadth of Japan made matters 1 orse for the Government. ± state of anarchy prevailed in many placet necessitating tho calling out of troops, while the gagging of the press to prevent its reporting the agitation met with loud opposition from the public.
At last, on September 17th, 1918, Marshal Terauohi formally tendered resignation to the dmperor. The Dmperor summoned marquis Saienji to form a new Cabinet, but he recommended Mr. Hara, the leader of a powerful political party, the Seiyukai, as best qualified to succeed Marshal Terauchi. Thus a Cabinet with a non-titled premieia was created for the first time in Japan, with the exception of the non-partisan Ministers of Jar and Mavy and of foreign .affairs, all the rest were members of the Seiyukai, so that the Hara Cabinet was properly called a Plebeian Ministry.
I cannot help ascribing the creation of this democratic Cabinet to the national aspirations for the establishment of democracy in Japan. You may easily imagine with what feelings the Japanese welcomed the advent of this Cabinet. Mr. Hara declared the urgent necessity of making extensive political reforms and promised to follow a very liberal policy in all matters.
Under these c ircu..stances, the universal suffrage movement came into existence. This movement is a natural issue of
da race racy and is supported by young statesmen and young professors. _i great many meetings were held throughout tne country to pronote this idea among the people. They expected they Cabinet would certainly help to realise the people’s ardent desire by reforming the Election legislation. But to their great surprise the movement V7as encountered by the insiduous objections of Mr. Hara, uhder pretence that this was too early for Japan. Idr. Hara began gradually to oppose any decisive policy, his political device being "Be colourless as white paper."
This, the people's great expectations were cruelly betrayed, but taking into account this popular desire, the Hara Cabinet carried some important measures, such as Revision of Election Law. Other Bills passed included, Amendment of Local Taxes and Conscription Law, Road Law, City Planning Law, etc.
This partial improvement was far from satisfying the People's strong longing for a fundamental reform in Old Japan.
It will be of great interest to explain how the Hara Cabinet came gradually to turn its bade on the very liberal policy promised in its preliminary declaration and how Mr. Hara decided to take up a reactionary attitude towards the people from the end of 1919.
Without referring to Mr. Hara,s conservative personal character, it is of course partjty aue to tne dixxerence between the ideal and the real in political affairs. Still the most powerful motive which lad Mr. Hara to such a decision was that •Yestern ..urope and America nad not virtually kept their promise after all. Indeed, we remember that on the 13th February, 1919, the Japanese delegates to the Peace Conference proposed the incorporation in the text of tne Covenant of an article abolishing the distinction ox race in international x*elations. yithout seeming to take any notice ox it, the Peace Co .Terence rejected this
Japanese proposal.
i
Phis event causet great disa point.eent to the Japanese people, who regarded the Conference as embodying the very spirit of international democracy. Mr. Hara icemingly ytook this attitude shown by r/estern Uuropo to heart and decided to change his policy towards the people. He began to think that it would be very dangerous xor Japan to let the people run to vague ideas of democracy.
I repeat again that the repercussion of political transition in Jurope is always strongly felt in the interior of
>
the country- No-' teat reaction is taking place, those militarists who had kept silence under the sway o± democracy, do not lose any opportunity of trying to recover their position and. spread the militaristic ideas that prevailed strongly in our country before the war. However, we- must not forget tnat our young generation, though very disappointed by the Peace Conference, do believe none the less in the final victory of democracy, not only in Japan out in the whole world*
1'hus, the idea of the League of nations rinds its earnest champions amongst these young men, end they are vigorously protesting against the reactionary policy Lf oho Lara Cabinet,
According to recent reports in the papers, Mr. Hera strictly forbids the import of foreign books dealing with radical thoughts. Ho - far will this policy go in the Universal Suffrage movement in the future?
In connection with this lamentable failure of the Hara Cabinet, it is necessary to throw/ so a li.-.ht upon the labour problem, which is to oe considered as another romarkaolo pha.se of democracy in the economic lie Id.
During the world war, -marked progress was made in all spheres of economic activity, esv edially in .. .-rr lecturing industries#
Japan suddenly became a country of remarkable exportation in order to meet the demand of those countries which had mobilised their national industries for war purposes. Our mercantile ships sailed as far as Western Europe to transport Japanese goods and returned to JUjpan laden with gold. This sadden economic prosperity in our country opens out however, a vista of light and shade, because if, as tne industrial histories of Europe and America seem to indicate, this transition brings in its train a period of national prosperity, it will also force upon us a difficult and not congenial task of tackling various social problems, on the solution of wnich depends tne future welfare of our country.
Before the war, Japan as an industrial country was not remarkable, for in the first place industrial concentration showed itself still a thing of the future, the principal industries being conducted to a great extent as domestic industry. Secondly our factories were conspicuous in textile industry in which unassertive and docile female operatives were dominant, and very poor in iron and chemical industry which depends chiefly ux>on muscular labour. Thirdly, Japanese law practically forbids so far tne formation of Labour Unions and hence the right of the labourer to get up strikes, although the Government enacted in 1911 the factory Law which was put in force in 1S16. Tais situation, however, was very much affected by the world war to the advantage of workers.
As I have said, during, the war the demand for material came to Japan from all quarters of the Globe, and she unexpectedly made great strides with her iron and chemical industries, and men workers increased considerably in number. How Japan stood on the threshold of industrial revolution; Japanese workers became conscious of their power and began to cry out for their right to existence. Heedless to say, tixe idea
of democracy accentuated this self-consciousness« ,ith rent and other necessary factors of living steadily rising out of the proportion to trie increaaeein their wages, and with the immense profits made by employers during the war, while only a scanty snare has been allowed to the workers, and especially with the growing power of labourers in the West, the voice of discontent against capitalists acquired volume and intensity.
In this way arose in Japan for tne first time, the labour problem, alarming both to the Government and the Capitalists. Recently strikes have grown graver both in nature and extent, the number of strikes and strikers. For instance, strikes have advanced from 25 in 1118 involving 4105 men, to 340 with 59197 participants in 1918, and the total in five years since the outbreak of war is 778 strides and 121,147 strikers *
Though Mr. Hara declared himself ready to adopt a liberal policy towards the labour problem, he has at last decided not to interfere with the normal development of the trades union movement and not to interfere with combined agitations of labourers themselves to assert what they consider to be their rights. But it is impossible to develop trade unionism in Japan unless the second clause of the Peace Regulations, which I mentioned above, and vthicn practically forbids combined movement of work people, is abolished. In other words, the Government, together with the Capitalists seem to follow the so-called "patronage system" in dealing with labour problems. I may here say that the Hara Cabinet is always ready to take any kind of measure in order to prevent the coming in of Bolshevism.
As for the labourers, they are quite at a loss as to how to turn the opportunity to their advantage, for they have neither organisation, training nor experience in pushing their own cause properly. Therefore Japanese workers
expected great tilings of the International Labour conferences which were held twice in Washington and Genoa under the auspices of the League of nations.
The papers I have received recently from Japan inform us that the Kara Cabinet* s reactionary policy goes so far as to suppress any meetings of radical labourers and the Labour delegates to the third International labour Conference were all officially nominated without taking into consideration the will of the workers’ bodies in the country.
As regards Socialism in Japan. Luring the last twenty years the Japanese Government had consistently pursued indiscriminate measures of repression towards Socialism and this Government policy was followed by Mr. Kara, who strangely considers Socialism as inconsistent with the existence of Japan. In connection with Socialism, any kind of radical thought is an irreconcilable enemy to Mr. Hara; I remember that a professor of the Imperial University was found guilty for the sole reason that he had published an article upon llropopkin’s theory in the organ of i> s University. This reactionary tendency finds a good excuse in the challenging attitude of the United btates towards Japan concerning the emigration question.
above
I have/sketched the general phases of very modern history in Japan, alviays keeping in tough with the progress of democratic ideas in the country. In short, tne world war brought a great democratic movement into Japan and this democracy will not cease to pusn its way till it is crowned with final victory, although Japan at present unfortunately clings to a reactionary policy, keeping pace economically with reactionary Uurope and America, hearing in mind tnis brief historical sketch, I shall proceed to deal with the attitude of Japan towards the League of nations.
11a The opinion in favour of the League of nations.
To thoso who recognise the high ideal of the League of Nations and endeavour to spread its fundamental idea in the country belong the enlightened politicians, advanced professors, sagacious journalists and young people of both sexes in general. It will be appropriate to classify en bloo their attitude towards the leagie of Nations into two categn. ;s„
Some regard the League as a kulturfrage, and among thesa Professor Anezaki is the most eminent figure, the others take the League rather as a political necessityt
Dr. Anezaki lays special stress upon tho faults of nineteenth oentury civilisation which lies in the blind adoration of the principle of the struggle for existence. This principle was, as he sa^e , driven to the extremity, thanks to the misinterpretation of Darwin's theories,, The world w^r was nothing but an expoctod issue of these thoughts,, Now that tho war is over, we must recons trot the organisation of the whole world, but this reconstructive work should bo guided by the idea of culture, oth«rwiso tho world will fepoat its tragedy again* Under the term "culture"
Dr. Anezaki understands tho state of eivilisod society where human consciousness and reason govern everything suppressing the outbreak of brutal inslinct* Tho League of .nations embodies this earnest aspiration for world reconstruc tion at its highest and represents the interest of the organised poople of the world, Referring as well to Article 2 2 on Mandates as to article 24 on Intornational Labour, he tries eagerly to endorse the sublime mission of the League as an organ enhancing the culture of all nations.
On the other hand he says that the League now remains very p^ssivcl and threatens to become an instrument for some reactionary Governments. The League must aim at promoting tie welfare *f
the people.
He concludes that Japan should devote her fire of enthusiasm end her light of reason to the cause of the League. As an «.dviser of the league of Mations Union of Japan inaugurated lu-st year under the auspices of eminent personages, luuAnozaki successfully delivered a series of lectures upon the League of hat ions, and he never fo. ils to seize an opportunity of orop»-agating its noble ideas among the new genoration0
How come the others who deal with the league under the political as pc o t„ Most of those who politically favour the idea of the league of lintious endeavour to avail themselves of its political importance to establish a durable peace in the world. They recognise the overwhelming démocratisation of the world and demand the co-operation of all rations through the League4 Disarmament and the Gourt of International Justice are the two questions upon vhich their attention is now fixed.
Disarmament especially forms & focus of discussions in Japan, and in this respoot I shall quote here an interesting passage from ,TJiji,,) one of the most influential papers in Tokio (1.1.1921)
Though the Covenant does not force the disarmament of members states, the league aime at its execution as its ultimata end. The United States of America unfortunately steads aloof from the league, but she has fought a battle with Germany for the sake of saving the world democracy and moreover it is President Wilson that initiated the scheme of the League of Nations; so that the very spirit of the league âiould be permeated in Americans.
However what attitude does America toko towards the world? According to the famous declaration of Mr, Daniels, America intends to acquire naval supremacy in the world by building huge warships unlimitedly, but in that o^-so, it is a matter of course that England, whoso national security depends only upon her match loss naval power, will bo compel!* d to follow the same policy in order not to stand behind America* Doing one of the werId1 s naval powers, Japan will also be entangled in this
-12-
■rfhirlpdol and this mi lit uris tic tondoncy will involve onoloss oompetition in urmaments just as before the war. It is not only detrimental to the peaoe of the world, but also intolerable for Jajan, for the increasing of armaments prevents her from devoting horself to her domestic affairs. On her armaments Japan intends to spend more than one-half of her entire national income, exclusive of minor lo^ns, in the c oming fiscal year; a muoh greater proportion than the Amorican plats involve, while the amount left available for the necessary administrativo recj uirements of Japan is so small compared to the needs that, if armaments should go ahead, the country as a -..hole must fall back,
Under these circumstances, Japan should
oouragoously propose the restriction of armaments alike to the United States and to Snglando Fortunately Mr.Lloyd George seems to pro pos» mediation in the matter.
What I have said of the Uuvy must also be applied to military force. The present mili tary force of Japan ie too bulky and gigantic, so that it would be possible to restrict it by fres will without waiting forsuoh mediation from outsido. Properly speak-lhg, our military soberna aimed at rivalling Ruseia, but now that Russia is no longer to be reckoned with, it is ib eless to cling to this old standard. ill© maintenancee of such a bulky military foroe will certainly arouse great suspicion in the world anl Jaosn will be regardofi as the most militaristic country ever entertaining imperial ambitions of encroaching upon neighbouring countries. I believe that Japan oan safely reduce her military force by as much as half to keep it at the lowest point consistent with national safety and the enforcement by common aotion of international obligations.
If Japan succeeds in taking the initiative in this line, not merely does she thwart the militaristic tendency in the worlu, but she will also be able to double her national vitality and eternal peace will thus daowa from the ^xtremo Orient".
-13-
Advcpates of tii e longue are o&^erly expo oting that America will join the league and give up her re&otlonary attitude.
In connection »d Ua this, it will be worth while jjo refer to the Anglo-Japanose '.llianoe which expires on July 12, 1921. The Japanese Ambassad.or in London, Baron Hayashi, has rocently made knom his uttoraneos about the Jfglo-Japanose Alliance, and its purport is as follows: The Alliance is not a menaoe to the United States; if a war breaks out between Japan arri America, the former will not expoct any help from England; in this case Article 4 of the •llianoe does not claim the obligation of England to co-operate with Jnp^n, and finally no secret treaty exists between the two countries. Previously, the Governments of Jag.in and England had likewise communicated an official Koto to the Secretariat of the League of Nations on July 8, 1920 to the effect that they would modify the Anglo-Japaneso -Ilianae so as to mahs it oompatiblo with the Covenant in case of its renewal.
Now let me cast a .^Lfcmco upon Chino-Japanese relations.
The mistrust of China towards Japan is reaching its culmination, and without a radical alteration in Japanese policy, China will never be friendly to us. The situation is very critical as hungry Jaetarn capitalists are anxious to mako usa of Ghinoso resources undor tho fair n.moo of peaceful penetration*
Being transformed into an industrial oountry, Japan must resort to Chine for the supply of raw nateriuls. That being so, wo must Biiow our sincerity and frankness towards China by really doing something good for her. They maintain that the Japanese Govern-»ent should proceed to discuss the nhantung question on friendly-terms before the Chinese delegates betake themselves to the Assembly for its definite solution.
-a regards the Occupation of biberia by Japanese troops, the principal democratic» pt. lera are severely attacking tho present Cabinet on the ground that suoh military action in Siberia would 1 qy the foundation of bitter hate against Jftpan, making poaoe In the extreme Orient uncertain.
-14-
In short, those who advocate the League of illations arc willing to dc sone positive sorvico in the ouuse oí hum-ni ty and novor miss a ohejaco oí one uraging Mr, Earn to pavo the vstiy ior tho understanding oí the world regarding: the Japanese nttitudo as a member of tho Leaguo, Mr, Hara is, unfortunately, rather reluctant to liston to such good advisors aad hoops himself ut a respectful distance. But young po opio now constitute a groat power in Japan and their influonce will become preponderant enough in 'the near future to lead our oountry in her foreign policy,
111. The Opinion against the League of Motions.
The re ioction by the Peace Conference of tho Jap^nose propositions as regards the equality of the ruocs only contributed to accentuate the scepticism which reigaea in Jup^n with regard to the Leaguo of Hutiafce. The principal impartid Japanese are of oourse disposed to wolcome the institution of tho Court of International Justice and International Technical Organis at ions to which the settlement of international difficulties will bo submitted. However, they could not but doubt if these cr guni eat ions, inevitably under the influence of western nations, would do justico to the Asiatic raoos. Indeed, from tho Japanese point of view, she has sufferod bitter experiences in the past in this respect, for instance in a decision turnen by the Arbitration Court of the Hague in 1905 in tho question of taxes upon foreign property in Japan, rhis situation boonme worso when Japanese militarists and chauvinists who lie in wait for a good opportunity to regain their lost prestige, took advantage of thiB national trom and began to further the omiso of militarism in J~.pun.
The recent disputes botwosn .maerioa . and Japan concerning Japanese -migrants in California o onsiderubly strained this military spirit.
Here 3e t me summarise some opinions of people who regard tho
The leaders of tho most absurd thoughts
League with hostility.
-15-
in this domain are the Minister of War, General îanaka, and Professor Gesugi, who published in Kichi a Buries of articles under the title of "HJha Groat Mission of the Japanese". ï'hey Consider that the roal peace of the eWorld vd.ll never come to pass unless baoiced
by strong military power; thesy point out that even in the assembly
- J	* *
of the Ifiagdo of nations which aims .'-at the ostablishment of permanent peace, discussions which wore not supported by military force did not find any active response in the world.
Japan, c onsdquantly, must keep hor might army and navy in order to maintain her superiority and to propagate, if possible Japanese ideas in the worlds. Ahoy try to find Justification for their opinions in the argument that it was only tho&ke to the
*
balance of power that peace was kept in our ope previous to the ftar, so that the League of Hatioha, not acknowledging the baluiao of power, -would never serve as the basis of world peaee. They exaggerate the political complications prevailing in nuropo and Jeer at the Pacificist movement. Link eu with the so extremists, there, are some less rigorous opponents of the League, who consider the Leaguo full of dofocts as regards its organisation.
Prdfessor G.Makino indicates the- League’s grave imperfections in the following points;
In the first place referring to the prevention of war, Article 16 of the Covenant runs:
Should any member of the League resort to w&r in ai ere gar d of its covenants under Article le, la or 15, it shall be facto be deemed to 1b. vo committed an act of w«r against all Members of the League which hereby under take immediately to subject it tc the economic sanctions, breaking off all intercourse with the Covenant-bracking State; and further the some Artiole provides that the Members of the League will support one another in resisting any special measures afemod at one of their number by the Covenant-brooking State, and that they will tame the necessary steps to
-luG
afford passage through their territory to the forces of any Member vrhich is co-operating to protect the ctenants of the
League.
How to put fu.o s t i on w hi o ii i f England the
these sanctions into practice, is however , a involves: many difliculties. He doubts wlietter, conquoror of the world resorts to war- in disregard
of covenants, it yd.ll bo possible to impose these sanctions upon her because no states exist which can coerce England,
Inis principle is far from the spirit of international equity, Secondly, concerning the proposition of race equality made by the Japanese delegation «¡.t the Peace Gonforonooj
Professor Makino remarks that the equal treat •went of the different rqoos should const! tuto one of the fundamental principles of the League and that an article should be Incorporated in the Covenant to tho of feet that, notwithstanding the differences of race, all. States and all nations arc equal before International Law,
By having discarded the insertion of this cl.uaso the Peace Conference turned out to be a successor of the tyrannical Vi emu Congress,
The present League is nothing but an instrument by which sou© powerful western nations satisfy their greedy appetites at the expense of Asiatic races.
Thirdly, his charges are directed against the League in the eoonomio field. 'hy did not tlx» League, whose aim it is t o attain permanent peace, venture to tune off the economic restrictions whiGh arc the greatest causes of war? By tne removal of eoonomio restrictions he moans tho aibmiesion to free exploitation of such colonies as provide raw materials; then freedom of immigration aid impartial treatment us regards invastmencs and. enterprise of different nations. Hg goes so far as to claim the non-oxistenoe of national frontiers as far as important primary materials arc conosmed, v/e must bear in mind, ho Beys , the necessary consequences of unfair distribution of cconomio
resources.
-17-
Fin ally , he attacks tho so~call.d great Powers in the «fost for not having taken into consideration the freed an of the ica, Professor Maklno concludes that the League of nations is after all a castlo in the air and cannot s.ccomTO.ish v/orld peace in its present she.pc.	Bone other professors shars
Professor Makings opinion. Borne radical Socialists chow their to pug nan co to the League of Nations saying that the latter. Is* ring the vanguard of cap it alien, *111 necessarily be hostile to the final i dc a of ¿>oc iali an. But tho an. j ori ty of Ja put; e:s work ant are, as X suggested, in favour of tho League.
IT p Conclusion.
However Japanese opinion may differ on the League , Japan being one of the five great Powers, cannot determine her foreign policy ignoring the existence of the LeagUG. Generally speaking, the young generation clearly realises the sublime ideal of the League and never hostitatos to promote its cause, while the old generation mostly look askance at the League, always trying to find some- good excuse to attack it.
But as tho main current in Japan is running in favour of the young generation I oa n c jnBciontiously affirm that Japan will piny a remarkable part in tho League in time to cocio.
It is, hosiosfar, very desirable that the Western nations should listen amicably to the protesting voice of the East end lake the necessary atejS to dissipate their apprehensions.
DDuGUD OP IIaTIQES
ooiiriDSggiÁi^
31/10/12.
Lstributed to Under Secretaries General and Directors.
Genera, March 29th. 1921.
NOTS BY KIJ SI&RDTAPY GPU3RAL.
I have read LI. Comert's article with the greatest interest. I ana glad to say that my ideas have been develop-ping on very similar lines and M. llonnet independently has come to much the same conclusion.
I have reason to believe that an amendment to the Covenant is likely to be submitted which would allow the league to summon or to encourage conferences being held between States particularly concerned in any problems which may be called local in the broadest sense of the word. If such an amendment is submitted and goes through a3 I hope it may; I believe the idea of the league of rations will receive a great development and additional strength. The principle would not be confined to technical problems, but might well embrace political; nor would it in any way prevent general conferences on questions which are of interest to the whole world.
I should like H. Comert’s article and my present minute to be circulated to U.S.Gs. and Directors, though the information about the suggested amendment should for the present be treated as confidential.
2.2).
25.3.21
Barcelone,
La Conférence Générale du transit et dos Communications que la Société des Bâtions a convoquée à Barcelone est une illustration très curieuse et très instructive des méthodes do la diplomatie au grand jour«
Je viens de suivre pendant uns semaine les eésnoos do cette Assemblée qui travaille fort assidûment, mais a inscrit â son Ordre du Jour un programme si charge quT elle denra probablement siéger jusqu'au 10 avril. ïous les débats, même r e ux cm Commissions( réserve faite pour la discussion on sous-commission;-ont lieu devant la presse et devant le public. «Lais les sujets traités sont si techniques que les spectateurs et les journalistes se sont très rapidement égrenés, fort peu soucieux apparemment de faire usage, par ces belles journées do printemps catalan, du droit çae leur accorde la Société des Bâtions d'assister aux séances.
Jn attendant l'autre jour un débat particulièrement sricle, je ne pouvais m'empêcher de penser que la politique internationale de l'avenir se compliquera do tant de problèmes spéciaux que la diplomatie de demain, au lieu de fermer la portq de son cabinet à la Presse, devra l'ouvrir toute grande et - qui sait? même se mettre en campagne pour décider les journalistes à venir écouter ses conversations.
Dans les démocraties futures où l'opinion, reine fantasque sera la maîtresse suprême, et où nul ne pourra rien ai treprendre sans son appui$ on peut imaginer une diplomatie dont la tâche principale sera de vulgariser, d'expliquer au public les affaires techniques autour desquelles s1 engageront les grands conflits d'intérêts.
.;n effets dans cette Confoàtvaoe de Barcelone, où les auditeurs sont rares et généralement peu interesses, j ai eoô sir-pris de voir bien souvent se profiler a l'arrière pbn, par delà
les secs exposes des experte, lea questions les plus actuelles, les plus angoissantes de la politique internationale.
Ce sont ces questions que je voudrais essayer de dégager ici, remettant à plus tard l'examen des projets de conventions internationales sur le transit, les voies fluviales et les voies ferrées.
La première de ces questions est ce qu'on pourrait appeler la question des groupements continentaux. Comment l'Luropo et
l'Amérique, rapprochées par deux années de guerre, puis éloignées
' %
par deux années do paix, vont-elles désormais travailler ensemble? Prétend entoiles rester entièrement indépendantes l'une de l'autre? et, si elles veulent collaborer, comment entrevoient-elles leur coopération?
L'organisation des chemins de fer pose d'un# façon précise et tout à fait intéressante, ce problème délicat. L'une part en effet, les chemins de fer sont internat!onaux, leur ruban d'acier parcourt tous les continents et se prolonge, uniforme, par delà las océans»
La lettre, le voyageur ou le ballot de marchandises qui quitte aujourd’hui Pqris ou Londres, sera peut-être sotuois, avant dt arriver aux termes de sa course, aux règlements des chemins de fer américains, asiatiques ou africains. Lès lors, la nécessité de conclure»
0
certains accords généraux entre les differentes administrations des chemins de fer se conçoit facilement.
L’autre part .si le cheminede-fer est une institution in- . ternationale, mondiale, il est per ailleurs strictement continental. Les Organisateurs du mécanisme du réseau ferré français ne sauraient faire abstraction des prescriptions mises en vigueur dans les autros pays d’Lurope pour le transport des voyageurs et l'expédition des marchandises, mais peuvent par contre, parfaitement se désintéresser de tous les règlements de ce genre que telle lointaine administration des chemins de fer d'Amérique ou dt^sie se plairait a insti tuer.
Les chemins de fer ayant ce double aspect mondial et continental, je m'attendais à ce que dans les débats de Larcelone, de temps en temps, des heurts se produisent entre ceux qui voudraient conclur des conventions générales sur le transit du monde en son ensemble
— 3 -
et ceux qui préféreraient orienter la conférence vers des accorda restreints, par continents. Je pensais notamment que, dès les premiers jours$ cette tendance continentale se manifesterait chez les délégués des jeunes républiques sud-américaines.
A ma grande surprise, c’est le point de vue européen qui s'est affirmé avec la plus de force. Sans,doute, les représentants de l'Angleterre, royaume insulaire et ceux de la ¿’rance, pays baigné sur trois de ses facos par la mer et ne touchant que par un de ses côtés
à l'Europe centrale, n'ont pas été les porte-paroles de cet esprit »
continental. Par leur configuration géographique crème, ces d*ux grandes nations regardent plus vers l'Océan que vers l'Interland. liais il en est tout différemment des pays de 1'Europe centrale. Ceux-ci ont formulé pour la première fois* à ma connaissance et avec beaucoup de
s	*
netteté la cause européenne.
Cette attitude est aisément explicable, ^vant la guerre, les pays do l'Europe centrale n'étaient pas seulement groupés en de puissants organismes politiques tels que l'Empire d'Allemagne ou la Monarchie austro-hongroise; leurs administrations des chemins de fer s'étaient engagées bien plus avant dans leur effort de concentration et de groupement. lin effet, il a existé en Europe, jusqu’en 1&14, une grande organisation continentale des chemins de fer. l'Association des Administrations des Chemins de for de l'Allemagne, dans laquelle étaient entrées granduellement la Hollande, l^utriche-Hongrie et la Roumanie. Par cette Association, toutes les voies ferrées de l'Europe centrale se trouvaient placées soiie le contrôle d'une sorte d’office central dont la présidence, à chaque session, revenait invariablement à la Prusse. Ae Ministre prussien des chemina de fer convoquait régulièrement des conférences auxquelles venaient assister les délégués de la Bavière, de la Saxn, de l'j.utriche, de la Hongrie, de la P.oumanie et de la Hollande, et leur faisait adopter des conventions communes pour
le régime de leurs chemins de fer.
C'est par cette habitude de coopération déjà ancienne <£ue
4
s'explique l'attitude très nette prise au cours do la Conférence, par les delègues de certains utats de l'Europe centrale, en faveur d’un groupement continental.
Cette attitude s'est révélée en particulier à Barcelone, au cours d1 un débat, sur la possibilité do convoquer des conférences partielles du transite Rappelons brièvement l'occasion de cette discussion., la conférence de Barcelone va créer, avant de se séparer, une organisation internationale du Transit avec une Commission consultative qui veillera à l'exécution dos Conventions conclues à Barcelone et
* / â l'aplanissement des différents qui pourraient surgir entre les diffé-1 »
rents pays signataires. Une grande Conférence générale que l'on convoquera tous les deux du trois ans aura pour tâche d'élaborer de nouvelles conventions et de compléter, ainsi, peuà peu le code international du Transit dont la réunion de Barcelone essaye en ce moment de realgar, les premiers chapitres. Or, $côfce de cette grande Conference générale, certains des représentants de l'Europe centrale ont réclamé la possibilité de convoquer des Conférences partielles pour résoudra certains .'Toblèmes spéciaux et particuliers à un groupe de pays. Pour prouver qu'ils n'ont aucun désir de s'isoler en une politique de secrets diplo-! ma tiques, ihs ont en même temps proposé que tout pays qui en ferait la demande fût admis à assister à ces Conférences partielles. En même
f	m	i
temps, t l'appui de leur thèse ils ont fait valoir que pour régler les I questions proprement europsencoou exclusivement sud-américaines, il est inutile de convoquer chaque fois des conférences générales réunissant les délégués d'une quarantaine de pays» Selon eux, chaque fois qu'un problème particulier, local, ou pour dire le mot, continental, se posera, il serait préférable de se borner à le soumettre a une CGnro~
renoe partielle, celle-ci devant veiller d'ailleurs, à respecter, dans
* ♦
la solution qu'elle présentera les grands principes proclames par les lonfér&nces generales.
Cette manière de voir n'est pas du tout, ainsi, qu'on pourrait le
croire au premier abord, un retour aux méthodes anciennes de la diplomatie par petits groupes. Les délégués qui parlèrent en faveur
#
d«Conférences partielles, expliqueront très clairement que les
a	m
conférences internationales des chemins de fer qui ont eu lieu jusqu1 à ce jour en hurope (cellesde Berne par exemple) n’étaient pas du
a
tout à leurs yeux des modèles â imiter dans le travail futur. Ils aspirent à un système nouveau qui grouperait peu à peu, d!une façon effective l’ensemble des chemins de fer européens. C’est ce q.ulà expliqué très nettement, au coure d’une récente séance, un délégué de »
l'iairope centrale, H* lanhas, représentant de la Tchécoslovaquie. '
û.yant été provoqué par certains autres délégués à s’expliquer sur sa
mniôre de voir, il exposa en ces termes oes idées à l’assemblée
n Nous ne cherchons pas, dit-il, à convoquer une Conférenco " pour le clocher tchéco-slovaque ; mais nous voulons en ” réunir une peur le clocher européen^. Gn peut très bien ” tenir des réunions partielles pour traiter les questions " qui, tout en. étant évidemment internationales, n’ont pas ” un caractère mondial« Csest une prétention bien haute que ” de vouloir, dès aujourd’hui, élaborer des conventions ap-" plicablo3 dans le monde entier, Bans la pratique, on peut " se contenter d’un cadre plus restreint, celui de l’Uuropo " par exemple. Dans ce cadre,on peut concevoir des confa-” reneee partielles ayant un caractère international* Un de ” orateurs a déclaré que les Conférences de Bern?, pouvaient " "être le type de ses futures réunions. Je m’excuse de le ” contredire, liais on n’a réglé â 1er ne qu’une petite partie ” du problème ferroviaire: les rapports entre les chemins ” de fer et le public. Ces conférences n’ont eu, â mon avis ” aucun des traits que devrai, r. avoir uno Conférence vraiment " européenne : ûi nous proposons ces Conférences que nous ” voulons internationales, c’est qu’il est impossible â nos n collègues ¿’«.mérique de venir on Burope tous les 15 ¿ours. n Mai* ces réunions partielles devraient être beaucoup plus n larges que celles de Berne pour qu’on puisse y accomplir " une oeuvre plus	Je ne prétends pas aujourd’hui pré-
" senter une proposition précise à ce sujet . J’ai voulu sim-” plament demander au Bureau d’étudier la question en tenant ” compte des observations que je vicus de soumettre".
On peut faire, sur les déclarations de .ionsieur Lankas, bion
ies réserves. Nul ne peut nier, par contre, la nouvauté intéressante
i’un tel language. Il contient peut-être en genpe la solution d’un
des problèmes les plus graves de la politique internationale: la
a
coopération de l'jurope et de l’«.mérique.
Lntre la politique de l’isolement splendide des Ltats-Unis,
6
(qui parait heureusement impraticable) et celle d'étroite coopération avec 1 ' dur ope sous l'égide de la Société des listions (donï la réalisation parait malheureusement de plus en plus reculée) il existe peut-être une solution moyenne: c'est la forma /souple, et pourtant solide que proposent pour régler leurs affaires de chemins de fer et de transit, certains délégués de Barcelone. Que les ¡«¿tatr: Unis et l'jurope acceptent ensemble certaines conventions générales qui posent, pour tous les grands domaines de la politique ou de l'économie du monde certains principes essentiels. Puis, pour leAffaires locales, continentales, dont la lointaine Amérique répugne à s'occuper, ne pourrait-on pas adopter un régime de conférencœ partielles, analogues à celui que préconise h. Lamhas pour les problèmes de communications. Ces Conférences partielles européennes, pour raient négocier des conventions plus étroites et plus précises
qui donneraient aux pays signataires des garanties plus complètes,
*
plus tangibles que ne pourraient jamais le faire les grandes conférences mondiales. Lien ne rapproche que la conscience d'intérêts communs et de danger communs. Les périls dont toutes les nations du
monde sans exception sont uniformément menacées, sont trop rares et
cinquante
trop indistincts pour que les/pays de la Société des hâtions, travaillant ensemble, puissent dès aujourd'hui pousser assez avant leur oeuvre de coopération pour donner à tous, au plus lointain o '8 aa plus petit une entière sécurité. Contre les dangers locaux, continentaux, la seule protection véritablement efficace est peu$- être un accord local, continental, dont tous les signataires comprendraient l'urgence et l'utilité. Dans ces conditions la charte de coopération et des garanties internationales apparaîtrait dans l'avenir comme un double faisceau de conventions générales adoptées par tous les pays du monde et de conventions paiticulières additionnelles souscrites par des groupements partiels. Ainsi, après avoir jeté un pont entre les continents par l'acceptation de maximes communes qui interdiraient d'avance les gigantesques conflits que
7
l'avenir peut préparer si l’on n’y prend garde, chaque continent, par devers lui, développerait et préciserait à sa manière, sur son territoire, selon les exigences des circonstances, une doctri ne de paix et do sécurité.
T out c e qui
précède n’est qu’un résumé rapide de mes oon-
versati ons sans toute
avec certains délégués. Ce sont des idées d’avant gare liais leur origine, empêche de les considérer cosr-ie le
résultat d'un effort géométrie politique.
purement imaginatif vers un nébuleux idéal t Ce sont les conclusions concrètes auxquelles
aboutissent certa ins experts en matière cl ? transit et ce communie -tiens quand on les interroge sur la meilleure méthooo à suivre
pour restorer entte notre vieux continent ot le nouveau monde les liens do la coopération, quo vaudrait cotte méthode si on essayai de la transposer du domaine concret des conventions do chemins de fer dans le vaste plan do lt politique internation^leV C'est uno question qu'on se pose en écoutant les discussions de lie reel one, mais à laquelle il est, pour l’heure, signulièrornent ür.laisé do répondre.
fl ^ c
t l'l
i
o.
t
IrL
A
Wi
h
fi
£
LEAGLTE OP KATIONS.
NO«13«
Genova,
29 th. April,1921,
MINUTES CP A DIRECTORS1 MEETING, HELD AT HOTEL NATIONAL, GENEVA, ON WEDNESDAY 27th APRIL, 1921.
Present;
The Secretary General Monsieur Monnet öommendatore Anzilotti Dr. Ni tobe Sir Herlert Ameö Professor Attolioo Monsieur Colban Monsieur Oomort Di’, van Hamei Monsieur Mantoux Professor Rappard Dame Raohel Crewdy Mr„ Nixon Dr, Yen
Kr. Walters fSeoretary.)
At the "beginning of the Meeting the heads of the different Departments, other than Administrative Sections, were present, and the Seoretary General spoke shortly on the respcnsihiliiy of the Memhers of the Secretariat, apart from their work at the Office, to do nothing which oould he taken as a handle hy critics of the League.
The situation was very different now that the Secretariat was working in a small town from what it had been in a large capital, Even outside office hours, we now continued to be a corporate body, and the credit of the whole was affected by
/the
4
the acts of individuals, During the Assembly and since thatt time there had been some unfriendly criticism of the Secretariat from this point of view. Nnr was it only the Secretariat which was affected; the Secretariat and the league are quite rightly to a great extent identified and the whole work of the League would suffer seriously from the continuation of oriticisms of this sort. Such attacks were none the less effective for being false or exaggerated, He desired all Directors and. Heeds of Departments to bring these observations to the notice of all who worked under them for he felt convinced that the Members of the Secretariat who in office hours worked with unfailing zeal for the ideals of the League needed only to have their attention called to the matter to ensure that for the future no occasion would be offered which could be seized upon and used to hinder the League's success«
The Secretary General said that ho had received from Monsieur Hymans a note drawing his attention to the fact that the Meeting of the Union of Voluntary Associations for the League was to be held in Geneva on the 9th June, and would, therefore, coinoido wiifO the Council on the 6th June, and asking whether, in view of the probable confusion which would be caused in the publio mind, it would not be possible to avoid this coincidence. He thought that it would be very difficult to put off the Union Meeting, and nearly impossible to put off the Council. Drcvan Hamel,
Sir Herbert Ames and Mr, Colban represented that the danger of misunderstanding was not so serious as to justify our taking action to put off the Meeting of the Union. Already the unofficial supporters of the League had a strong feeling that the Council Meetings were not sufficiently open to the ..orId and though our action would not be in the least intended to keep the Council Meeting secret,it would be very apt to be so interpreted, and might
/seriously
seriously lesson their enthusiasm. Whether the Meetings were simultaneous or not, there were likely to be mistakes in the reporting, as had happened last year at Milan, but tho people who really read with interest what was published realised the mistake, and the others did not pay particular attention.
Further, if we asked tho Union to postpone its Meeting it was practically certain that it would not agree. On the other hand , MM.-Monnet, Qomert and Rappard thought that the risk was a serious fine, and should be avoided if possible«- If the official organs of the League had to correct statements that the Council had taken some decision, which, in fact, was merely a resolution of the Union, this would imply that the Oounoil was disavowing the action of its supporters, and lead to worse feeling than anything else. Certainly, no open step could be taken to put off the Meeting of the Union, but at the same time they felt that the situation was rathor a dangerous one. It was decided t^ write to M,Hymans saying that it did not seem possible to take any official action in the matter,
•	i
The Seoretary^General said that the Establishment Officer had put up two proposals to him, one that the hall of the Office should have a partition put in it so as to make one more large Committee room.' This was agreed to, it being understood that Monsieur Comert would discuss with Mr. Huston how to leave enough space for journalists who were waiting for news.
The second was a enquiry whether we might suggest to the next Assembly the building of an Assembly Ilall next tc the Offioe, the approximate cost of which might be 1-g- million francs.
It was agreed that this could not be done 'this year.
The Secretary General mentioned that a Draft Statute for the personnel had been prepared by Mr. Colban as Chairman of the Staff Committee, with the help of the legal Section, which summed up the existing practioe of the Secretariat with a few small proposed changed It was entirely a provisional document, and as such had, at their request, been given to the Commission of Enquiry, who would no doubt have proposals to make in regard to it.
A long discussion followed arising out of the memorandum of Dr. Van Hamel which was referred to at the last meeting. It dealt specially with the following points:
1)	l’he present situation of the league.
2)	The prospect of American adhesion and the possibility of action to bring it about.
3} The policy of the Secretariat in general.
4)	The desirability or otherwise of a definite change in the activities of the Secretariat which should consist in ±ts being empowered officially to initiate discussion in the Council or the Assembly and to propose policies to those bodies.
Owing to the long and extensive nature of the discussion, it was deoided not to make minutes of it as those could hardly give an adequate account of the many views brought forward.
L£LL GrU_j OF Ni_TI0H8
21/10/14
Geneva, hpril 7 th 1921
Circulated to Directors ,
Heads and Members of Sections•
15/10763/107624
The attached is a list of the publications of the Bureau International du fravail. It is requested that Directors, heads and Members of sections, sht.ll notify the Distribution Branch as to which of the publications mentioned, if any, are of interest to them» bo that arrangements may be made, ae soon as possible, for copies to be supplied for the use of the Secretariat*
It is further requested that the Distribution Branch may be notified by any Section which desires to receive the Minutes of any of the Commissions of the International labour Office, such i~s the Joint Maritime Commission etc*, so that the permission of the Commissions concerned may be obtained for the circulation of these minutes to the Secretariat.
LEAGUE Of PATIOB S.
Distributed to Under Secretaries -	Bo, 14,
General and Directors,
Geneva,
12th, May 1921.
OONFIDEBTIAL.
MIBUTES OF DIRECTORS» MESTIIIG HELD OB TUESDAY - May 10th, 1921.
PRSSEBT:
Monsieur Monnet Commend&tore Anzilotti Sir Herbert Ames,
M. Colban M. Comert Dr. Van Hamel M* Bappar&
Dr, Hawkling Yen
Major Abraham
Mr, Walters (Secretary),
Monsieur Rappard said that since the last meeting, he had
paid a visit to Berne and seen Monsieur Hotta and M. Sohulthess,
The Swiss Minister in Washington was going to be instructed to inform
the American Government that contrary to the views expressed by
President Harding, Switzerland desired the success of the League
and did not consider it as the instrument of the victorious
great Powers. They had also spoken of Barcelona, and promised
to examine the Conventions there agreed upon, in a favourable
spirit, and sign them if possible.
As regards the question of the zones, it was clear that in
*
so far as na common accord had to be reached between France and Switzerland", this could not be imposed from without; there remained however a judicial question which very likely would, in due course, be submitted to the League,
On the subjeot of Reparations, there seemed a feeling that it was desitable that the League should deal with them, but not until it had been seen whether or not, the Allies' present polioy could suooeed.
The,,,
The ratification of the Permanent Court of International Justice had been voted unanimously in both Chambers, being supported even by opponents of the League* The Swiss Government had not up to the present proposed to set up any organisation in Geneva, to keep in touch with the Secretariatc A.11 documents we sent were dealt with in the Political Department by a special Secretary of Monsieur Huber, vho passed them on to the Departments concerned*
is a general observation, he thought it important that members of the Secretariat their Governments to see that they did not merely go to ask for news, but took some for them in return*
Commends.tore AIÎ2IL0TTI said he had received satisfactory information as regards ratification of the Court* The Italian ratification will be deposited this month,
Monsieur COMRRT said that the greatest oare should be exercised with regard to the circulation of memoranda in the Secretariat. As an example of how news got known, he had learned that a Swiss Journalist already knew certain actual details of the report of the Enquiry. Commission* Great oare should therefore be exeroised regarding documents signed by Directors and containing out-spoken comments on the Council and on the policy of the League*
He drew attention to the first no. of the monthly summary and asked that Directors would consider who would be the best recipients of it* There were 700 copies in Prenoh and English printed and German and Spanish copies were being prepared.
The section was ôoing all it could in the matter of the ratifioation of the Court. On this, the success or failure of the Assembly depended. We could not hope for more than about 10 ratifications in America, Therefore of the 21 European countries, a large number must ratify. This mainly depended on the great powers; every effort of a personal kind should be made to secure ratifioation as soon as possible.
Some,,
Some Swiss Journalists had asked him whether they could occasionally ask for enlightenment from Member s of the Secretariat when news came of Interesting events in those biember s' native land. inhere this oould be done without indiscretion, it would he thought be useful in breaking down the barrier which existed at present between the Swiss press and the Secretariat,
M. QOLBAN said the Norwegian Government had asked him whether the costs of the Permanent Court would be payable by all Members or only those ratifying. After consulting Commendatore Anzilotti, he had answered that they would be paid by all. This had, in fact, been the sense of the Assembly on the matter.
As regards both Danzig and the Saar the number of questions coming up for consideration by the Secretariat and by the Council was continually increasing. Particularly with Danzig we carried on a very large correspondence in whioh his section collaborated closely with the Legal Section. This state of things showed increasing confidence in the League and should be encouraged.
The question of minorities in Finland and Albania was on the Counoil Agenda. He was waiting until the latest moment to prepare memoranda on the subject, owing to the difficult political situation in both countries. Dr. Van HAMEL said he had read a number of memoranda arising out of his note and would try to resume shortly in writing the points of agreement. He had been disagreeably surprised by finding that the contents of his Note were known to persons outside the Secretariat, though it was supposed to be confined strictly to Under Secretaries General and Direotors.
The Dutoh Minister in Berne had reoently visited the S ecretariat, he had seen many of its members, and had been much impressed by it. He waB drawing his Government’s attention to the possibility of a " demarche" in Washington about the League. He was thinking of keeping a junior
- 4 -
offioial of the Legation permanently in Geneva, The Secretariat had also muoh impressed the Danish Professor BKRLID who had come on an offioial visit from his Government to report on the Lesgue, and having oome somewhat anti-League had gone away with very different views. It was interesting that all Universities in Holland now included in their course lectures on the League.
The report of the sub-commission of the Amendments Commission was now being printed, On the general subject he was impressed by the consideration that the passing of any amendment would enable a State which wished to do so to leave the League without diffioulty. We ought therefore to consider whether it would not be better to find a middle way e.g, pass no amendment in September, but a number of interpretative resolutions at the same time keeping the Commission alive till the next Assembly as had already been proposed by one or two of the members,
Qommendatore AflBILQTTI mentioned that the plan of keeping the Commission in being would suit the Blockade Commission whose work depended very muoh on the Amendments Commission, Monsieur Monnet said i) would also have the advantage of keeping some representatives of non-Council countries on regular work for the League.
Monsieur RABDARD thought we should be open on the subject and explain why interpretative Resolutions are suggested for this Assembly, but at the same time in order not to give ground to countries who desired that the Covenant might be amended, to go out, as the Argentine had done, on the pretext that amendments were not properly considered. We should ge t an amendment to Article 26 itself, allowing a country whioh did not like an amendment to stay in with the reservation that it did not accept it. This was indeed a serious development in the original conception of the League, but it was along lines which were already being opened up, e.g. by M, Benes's amendment to article 21,
After a considerable discussion on the point it was decided that Dr, Van Hamel should draft a short statement of the possible
policies,,..
5
policies which might ha followed including a draft amendment to article 26 in the direction proposed by M. Rappard.
Dr. Van	thought it important to ascertain definitely
the position of the Argentine, He thought the question of whether or not she had ever legally adhered should not he too legalistioally considered. She had aoted on several occasions as a Member of the League had given plein-pouvoir to her Assembly delegates, and so on.	Commend at ore AiiaiLOTTI said that he
Lntended to mate a careful study of the matter which was of importance as affecting a number of the ratifications of the Court necessary to unable the Assembly to aot.
Sir Herbert Ames drew the attention of Directors to the necessity of letting him have their budget figures during the course of the present week. He also adverted to the question of keeping confidential opinions expressed by members of the Secretariat in confidential minutes or conversations«
Mr, Abraham said that the main faots of the Brussels Confer an oe were being circulated in the Secretariat, The Aaland Islands report would he published to-morrow.
He had reeently entered a note on a conversation with a Hungarian representative in which it was stated that it was Hungary’s intention to apply for admission to the League, Since then the Government had ohanged and he did not know exactly how the matter stood.
Dr, Hawkling Yen said that the Opium Commission had met on Ray 8nd. for 4 days. All Members were present, including three assessors. They had decided on the despatch of a questionnaire but could not make a complete report to the Assembly because the answers could not be received in time. They had also passed the estimate of expenses for the Commission, They had deoided on one question of principle, vis: that they could not at present go beyond the Hague Convention of 1912; and one question of political interest had been raised by Sir John Jordon who suggested to propose to the Council that it should ask the consular representatives in
different.,.
- 6 -
■
»different Provinces of China which according to him were not under the control of the central Government to communicate with the »Provincial Governors on the subjeot, This proposal had been [accepted, the Chinese member however making a reserve.
Dr. Van Hamel urged that the Legal section should have been kept more in touoh with the work of the Commission than had been the case.
Monsieur MOBItfciT said he desired to emphasize the advantage to the League from a Commission such as this. It was an exanrçple of a new international situation, viz: of the faot that there existed now a central body to watch the carrying out and eventual development of the Hague Convention of 1912. Such a thing had never existed before*
In general the different Commissions, whether permanent, provisional or merely temporary are of great importance to the League and every effort should be made by the Secretariat to give them all possible life, Comissions suoh as the Opium one ought to he kept nourished in every way, and we should do all we could to give them a personality in the eyes of Governments and of the world, "The Opium Commission of the League" 3hould be a recognised entity.
One possible means might be that the different Chairman should come to the Commissions of the Assembly or the Assembly as a whole and explain what they had done. The same plan might be applied not to the permanent and temporary Commis siens only, but also to administrative Commissions suoh as the Saar Governing Commission, and to purely ad hoo bodies, like the Commission of Enquiry. The invitation to do so would of course have to come from the Council.
M. Comert said that this uould be of the greatest value from the point of view of publicity,
Sir Herbert Ames agreed.
It was always an individual that caught the public imagination*
- 7 -
H* Rapperd said that he heartily agreed with the policy suggested by M. Monnet, hut as regards his own Commission* he was in a difficulty, They were only too anxious to receive documents etc., hut unfortunately he could not at present carry out their wishes*
As regards the Permanent Court, Monsieur MOTIHET felt that the efforts made had been somewhat dispersed* He asked Commendatore Anzilotti to make a list of all Governments whose ratification could he hoped far and of the actual
individuals who would make it their business to do all that
«
was possible to secure such ratifications*
The Financial Commission was leaving Vienna that day, and would meet in London on May 21st* We ought carefully to think out the possible developments of the course on which it had embarked* The Austrian problem was by no means isolated, and the work begun Blight well develop into something a great deal wider, which would in truth be one of the most solid and effective means of carrying out the purpose far which the League was brought into existence*
L.1ACU3 0? NATIONS
~LQ , [\{ l 'i
-4JL-^ Cf X. 2"f
Distributed to Under Secretaries	No. 15.
'general and Directors,
GENUVA,
¿Oth, May 192li
MIITUTH OF THE DIRECTORS'
lViu-J Ijjl
ING HD HD
ON WEDNESDAY 10th. May 19 21.
Secretary General
Commendstore Anzilotti
Sir Herbert Ames
Mr. Colban
Dr, Van Hamel
M = P.appard
Mr, Abraham
Mr, Hair
Mr,, Nixcn
Dr, Hawkling Yen
Mr, Halters (Secretary),
The Socretary General gave a short account of the situation of the Brussels Conference. Through the week Before his arrival there, M. Hymans had been ne^v,Mating separately with each party, but no full Conference had taken place. It was clear that the Lithuanians were afraid of making any concessions which would give Poland a chance of gaining control of their political or economic affairs. The Poles were very "intransigeants". The Ministers at Y'arsaw of Prance, Great Britain and Italy had proposed cX plan for solving tiro question hy federation, Poland would probably accept this, but the Lithuanians would not hear the word "federation", and indeed the solution did not seem a fair one,
Y-hen Conferences began, Monsieur Hymans found it advisable to go for the easier negotiations first and some pregross had been made in these directions, thus a military Convention was in a fair way to be drawn up which both sides could accept. An economic Convention was in discussion, for this both sides must send their experts, but it seemed quite probable that they would be able to agreo on a Convention, providing that there should bo no customs barrier between the two, but that uach should remain free to make its own arrangements with 3rd, parties.
- 2 -
A political Convention too had begun to to discussed, but the progress made was small.
Meanwhile, M. Hymans had been working on a scheme by which Vilna should go to Lithuania and Poland should recognise Lithuania de jure in return for largo concessions of various hinds. He had tried to get for this the support of London and Paris, London was propared to support him, but Paris at present was hesitating. After the negotiations just described a plenary meeting was held in Brussels on the Vilna question, and as was to be expected seemed to reach complete deadlock» Monsieur Hymans however' had found a way out by getting both parties to agroe that ho should submit a plan for discussion. The plan he proposed to submit was not much lilted by either sides which perhaps was an indication that it was a good one.
Mr. Colban said that ilJ Lithuanians were very likely to have polish national feelings, a plan of federation either partial or complete might work, if they had a national feeling of their own it was certain to break down. The Secretary General thought that the common interest of the two countries both economic and because the great danger for both was Russia and Ceraany, so that he hoped the settlement proposed might prove a workable one. He had done what was possible in London to secure the ratification of the Court. The difficulty was that whilo the Governments were perfectly ready to get it ratified at once so far as Great Britain was concerned, they had to wait until all tho Dominions had separately agreed to ratification.
I
- 3 -
The meeting on Juno 6th, of the League of Nations Union in Geneva would he an occasion of some importance, and ho thought the Secretariat should do what it could.
Vro should not press instructions upon the delegation, but if they ashed, we should be willing to supply lectures sotting out shortly the facts on s ecial subjects» He also suggested that subject to the arrangements to the entertainment Committee, the Delegates should be invited to tea in the Hall of the Secretariat every day at 5.30 and that as many Members of the Secretariat as possible should join them,
Ho desired to congratulate the Info naation section on the monthly summary which was a most excellent piece of work.
Hr. Hair said that the next number would have a supplement giving the work of the League done during its 10 months of existence,
M. Rappard said that he had recently been taking the Secretary of tho Svdss League of Nations Union round the Secretariat, which had impressed him most favourably. His reaction however to Monsieur Monnet’s expression of views on the functions of the League as being mainly a method of international corporation had been such as to strengthen his flvl. Rappard' s) conviction that from the point of view of public opinion it was essential to emphasize the League as being a political and peace keeping organisation, more than as technical one. The Secretary General agreed that the political side of the work was in the long run the most important; it took 22 articles of the Coveoc-r. o as compared with 2 or 3 for the others»
Mr. Nixon said that the Delegation to Vienna had carried the situation much further than it had been expected they could. They found the affairs in Vienna not so bad as was generally thought. They had expected that it
- 4
would le necessary to provide 50.000.000 pounds sterling
from outside, lut found that the city was rapidly
recovering its pre-war position and might even hope
to improve on it.	There were in Austria large financial
resources, lut ownors would not uso them in Austria,
while the financial situation was so lad, and simply kept the
them in/form of Foreign lank notes, Tho problem now was to tap these resources and get them into use in Austrian business. In fact, the (question was thus entirely one of currency reform which would make it worth while investing in Austria and of stopping tho increasing issue of notos due to the Government's inability to balance its budget.
As a result of the Delegation's discussion with the Go vo mm ait, tho lattor had put forward a plan for improving its organisation and balancing its budget, including tho issue of a forced loan to meet the deficit.	All the political parties had declared
thot they would support this policy and to this extent the work accomplished by the Delegation had been political as well as strictly financial.	Of course the Delegation
had now to induce the Financial Commission to accept tho □ chôme and foreign credits ^rould have to be made to carry it out.
Nothing had yet be on hoard from the Supreme Counoil about the renunciation of the liens at present held on Austrian resources, if no reply came, he thought the Committee, not the Council, should take tho matter up.	The Committee had as yet taken no action to
oxtond its operations , but if tho Austrian busines3
succeeded, other countries would certainly try to come in similar schemes.
Mr Colhan said he had had a discussion with Monsieur Vigicr about the interim reports to the Council and had suggested to him that he should ask the Sections a few days ahead ta> supply the facts concerning their work which it would be his business to co-ordinate in:.a report to' the Council. He hoped that Directors would agree and would help on this line.
Mr. Mair said that the Aaland Islands report did not actually reach Stockholm till after May 11th. meanwhile, the Swedish foreign Office had issued a tendenoious summary of it.
Since then the report and the excellent summary made by Major Abraham had reached the Swedish press and the Eagensnyheter now had said that the report was much fairer than it had supposed and withdrew many of its objections to it. But, first impressions were the most important, and this incident led him to wonder whether we could not keep the publication of League documents entirely in our own hands. It was agreed that we could not prevent interested Governments from publishing documents, though in the case of documents which we intended to publish, vie should try to let the press have them as soon as possible after the Governments and thus forestall the issue of unfair quotations or resumes. The best method of doing this was by sending thorn to a central office in each Capital for release on a given date.
Sir Herbert Ames asked whether in the budget for 1922, he should act on the suggestions of the Commission of Enquiry in such things as the rate of subsistence allowance.
The Secretary-General answered him in the affirmative.
Major Abraham mentioned that the question of Albania was being put on the agenda, and the Governments ........
-6-
of Yougo-slavia, Greece and. Albania were being asked to send representatives.
The Secretary-General said that on the request of the Marquis Imperiali the Couneil meeting was being postponed to June 17th, subject to the agreement of other members. As regards its length, the Aalands Islands must take a good time, each-delegation would wish to expose its views at least twice, after which we should have to work out a plan agreed in principle, leaving the details for subsequent settlement. Mr. Colban thought Danzig would need throe days .and the Saar nearly one; Albania might take up two days. As to Mandates, the British Government desired to go ahead with them at the next meeting.
Mr. Rappard wondered whether it was wise to say in effect
tot-the United States: "you have had your chance to be heard, now
be
we shall go ahead". This would/reasonable, but, you could not treat the United States as reasonable people. On the other hand, there were evident objections to doing nothing. In any case, he hoped the Council Members would come with full instructions from their Governments.
Amendments to the Covenant. Dr, Van Hamel said he had circulated a note on this subject. Sir Herbert Ames mentioned that in any case, Article 6 must be altered.	troubles about
expenditure really arise mainly from the fact that some Members, e.g.. South Africa had to support a burden which was really very difficult for them.
The Secretary-General thought there were two categories of amendments, a) routine questions, e.g. article 6 on vhioh it could hardly be supposed that any States would leave the League;....
21/10/15
Circulated to Under-Secretaries General Directors .
. The attached draft note is submitted for the consideration of Under Secretaries General and Directors before submission to the Secretary General for final approval.. It is requested that any suggestions may be sent in to Miss .HO CM TUG as soon as possible as it is desirable that the scheme may be put into operation at a very early date.
DI3TEI3UT101! BRIDGE. 8/4/21
DRAFT NOTS TO COUNCIL AND STATES MEMBERS
Note from the Secretary-General PROPOSED CHANGE IS oYSTLM OF NUMBERING OF DOCUMENTS.
The present system of numbering documents for distribution purposes has boon found by various members to be inconveniont and confusing, and it has therefore been decidod that a new system shall be adopted which shall indicate clearly to members:-
1. Whether the document is submitted to the Council: or
2. Whether the document is submitted to the Council and at the same time also sent to all the States Members of the League:	£r
3.	Whether the document is submitted to all the states Members of tho League and not specially destined for the Council: ojr
4	V/hether the document is submitted to the Assembly.
The new system will also indicate the year in which the dooument appears and the section of origin inside the Secretariat the sections being represented by Roman numerals in alphabetical order.
1 .	C.125. Ill	1921
This numbering indicates that the document is the 125th submitted to the Council, and that it is prepared by the Health Section of the Secretariat in the year 1921.
2.	C.125	111	19gl.	M.45
This numbering indicates that the paper is submitted to the Council and also distributed to all the States Members of the League, and that it is the 45th paper submitted to all States.
3 .	Ill 1921	M.45
This numbering indicates that the paper is submitted to the States Members of the League.
4.	A. 145	11	1921.
This numbering indicates a paper prepared by tho Eoonomio & Financial Section and submitted to the Assembly of 1921.
Papers which aro prepared for the consideration ox the
t
various committees and commission will not be included in this
numbering, but will be numbered separately, only the final report of such a committee or commission, as presented to the Council or the Assembly, coming under the above system of numbering.
This system will come into force immediately and Council and otatos Members will be able henceforward to check whether their series of documents is complete.
It will not be possible to re-number all back papers, but no further papers will appear under the old system of numbering after SOth of April,
The Sections of the Secretariat will be indicated, for the above schemeJ as follows:-
Administrativo Commission	1
Economic finance	11
Health	111
Information	IV
Legal	V
Mandates	VI
Political	Vll
Trans it	Vlll
Permanent Advisory	•
Commission Military Naval and Air	12
Administrativo Finance	vr A
P-M pJ[
II o • 16
Distribute! to
;r Secrotarios-Goncral Directors »
Genova,
28th, Hay 1921.
IIINUTES 0? DIRECTORS1 LIEE TING hold on .edncsrlay, 25th Hay, 1921.
PRESENT:
Secretary-General„ Coramendatoro Anzilotti.
M. Rappard.
Hr. Abrahams.
Hr. Gilchrist.
Hr. Hawkling Yen.
Sir Herbert Ames.
Hr. Hair.
Dr. Van Eamel.
Dame Rachel Crowdy.
Hr. Philip Baker, Secretary.
1„ Postponement of Heetings of League Commissions, etc.
The Secretary-General announced that it had been necessary owing to the request of the Harquis Imperiali to postpone the Meeting of the Council from June 9th, for which date it had been originally arranged, until June 17th. It was probable that its session would last until the end of the month. He further stated that four days before the meeting of the financial Commission which was.now being held in London, the Italian member had telegraphed requesting the postponement of the meeting. In fact the financial Commission had decided that it must meet and the Italian Government had thereupon telegraphed that it could not consider either th deliberations, of the Commission or the Report of the Delegation which had recently been in Austria as binding upon itself. The Secretary-General thought that the
Italian
Italian Government had misunderstood the nature of the Financial Commission, which is an ,rexpert" body and in no sense représentative of Governments„	If, however, Italy
subsequently decided that it would not give up the liens which it had on Austrian assets in respect of reparations, the work ox the Delegation in Austria would of course be of much lessened value* But he hoped this would not occur*
In the third place, the Secretary-General announced that Signor Scialoja had telegraphed requesting the postponement of the Amendments Committee until July« He had not thought it right to the responsibility of replying to this request himself* Mr* Balfour had telegraphed to Signor Scialoja saying that it was impossible to postpone the meeting of the Committee at such short notice, and that he hoped Signor Scialoja would still make an effort to attend and to act as Rapporteur for the Committee to the Council and the Assembly *
After some discussion on the postponement of
Commission mootings the Secrotary-General said that he thought
the general conclusion to ho drawn was that it was essential
for all Leaguo Commissions to decide before they separated
upon the date of their next meeting, and that no change
should be made in the date so decided upon for any roason
of
whatever* If any members/ Commissions were not able to attend they must appoint substitutes, which as was generally understood, they had the right to do*
2	° Publication of the Report of tho Commission of Enquiry *
The Secretary-General said that he considered it
/
would be wise in view of mis-statements in the Press and in view of the Budget debates which would shortly be coming up in
9* O o o c
3
a considerable number of Parliaments to publish the Report of tho Commission of Enquiry on the Secretariat as soon as possible. He also thought it desirable to secure simultaneous release to tho Press in London, Paris and Rome.
Hr. Hair said that such simultaneous publication could be secured by releasing the Report in London, Paris and Rone on Tuesday next. By this tine copies of the Report would also have reached the Press in Scandinavia, Holland, Austria, otc. Hr. Hair undertook to arrange for the publication'and to secure agreement with the International Labour Office on tho arrangements they had made for publishing the Report. Mr. Hair also submitted a telegraphic summary of the Report for immediate publication, but on Dr. Van KamelTs suggestion it was agreed to substitute for this a summary consisting merely of the Headings of the Commission's Report e
3-. Attendance book in the Secretariat offices.
The Secretary-General said ho thought the suggestion of tho Commission of Enquiry as to an attendance book should be earriod out and suggested that a start should be made from July 1st. After suggestions by Mr. Mair, Sir Herbert Ames and Mr. Abrahams it was agreed that a separate loose leaf attendance book should bo kept in each section, and that at the end of each week the attendance sheets should be torn out an& sent to Mr. Huston, to be kept in one book. They should be inspected about once a month, perhaps by Sir Herbert Ames1 section. It was agreed that it, would be sufficient to record the time of coming in the morning and of departure in tho evening. Mr. Huston should be invited to prepare the necessary books. It was also proposed that Ur. Huston should consider whether coffee, etc., could not be brought to the various offices in the middle of the
-4-
norning, with a view to saving the time of the staff. Representation of South America on the Secretariat,
The Secretary-General said that he considered the proposal of the Commission of Enquiry that a South American section should he formed in the Secretariat to be an impossible one, as it was entirely contrary to the basis onjwhich the present organisation had boen formed. He thought, however, that four or five more South American members should be taken into the Secretariat and that they might be formed into an Advisory Committee on South American affairs., He thought this proposal might reasonably be put forward to the Assembly by the Secretariat.
M. Rappard, Sir Herbert Ames, Mr. Abrah.ans and Mr. Gilohrist all expressed the opinion that it would be a mistake for the Secretariat tc begin treating South America in ary way collective ly or as a unit, and they, therefore, opposed the proposal of an Advisory South American Committee. They thought, however, that it would bo possible to find places in the Secretariat now for four or five South American members of Sections. The Secretary-General said that perhaps it would be sufficient to state that these members would be consulted individually or collectively whon South American questions arose, hr. Van Hamel suggested that South Americans might also be used in some of the outside organisations connected with the league such as the Court, etc, It was agreed that in addition to M. ïïoguiera it would be possible to have a ''entrai or South American member in the Legal, Political and Information Sections,and that this could be done without further addition to the Budget as proposed. It might also be possible to have a Central or South American in the Economic b Transit Sections. The Secretary-General said that he thought the States which should be represented were Chile, Brazil and perhaps Peru, and that one representative should, be talon from the Central America
States
5-
Sir Herbert Ames mads some proposals with regard to the establishment of the Secretarial Bureau in South America. He suggested that there should be one officer who should remain in the office, wherever it might be placed, and another who should travel round the capitals of South America. He suggested that the Secretariat might rely on the travelling member of this bureau to afford the Secretariat full information on all South American political questions.
The Secretary General pointed out that there was some confusion of thought between the two bureaux which it was suggested should be set up in South and Central America.
The first was to be simply a bureau to supply information and to be a centre from which telegrams could be distributed to the South and Central American States.The place where it should be established should, therefore, be decided for purely geographical reasons.
The idea of the other bureau was to form in South America a common Bureau for all South American countries, which would perform the functions of the Service francais and other analogous organs in European countries. The place where such a bureau should be established was a matter of great delicacy, and he himself thought that ii might be wisor to endeavour to secure that one official in each administration should be entrusted with League of Nations matters, and that these officers should meet annually, or even more often, in different South Amorican capitals to exchange views.
The whole question would, however, have to be thrashed out at the Assembly,
Circulation of Documents to Members of the League.
Mr. Gilchrist brought forward the question as to whether official letters from Governments and such official Secretariat papers as telegrams convening meetings, etc. should
6
bo circulated to all the Members of the league before they had been considered by the Council. It was decided that all official documents circulated by the Secretariat to the Council should be sent at the same time to all Members of the League, including documents intended for the consideration of the Council.
It was decided that the formula to be adopted should be referred to the Drafting Committee who would be ashed to prepare a memorandum.
It was recognised that there would have to be certain exceptions to the rule concerning circulation to all members, c.g., certain interim reports received by the Council from Committees or Commissions where the Committees request circulation to the Council only, petitions from Minorities, etc.
'-■ar 10 us.
The Secretary-General said that * a reception had been arranged for the members of the Conference of League of Rations Societies on Tuesday, June 7th, at 5,p.m. It was proposed that short addresses should bo given on one or two subjects,as he feared it was very doubtful whether he would bo able to be back in time for the meeting. He proposed that Mr.Colban should be asked to give a short address on the general organisation of the Secretariat. Oommendatore Anzilotti said he was willing to speak on the International Court of Justice. It was hoped that as many Under Secretaries, Directors & Members of Sections of the Secretariat as possible would arrange to attend.
Sir Herbort Ames reported that Austria had paid 1,OCO geld francs towards her contribution to the League funds and hoped to do so as often as she had any funds at her disposal.
Mr. Abrahams reported the Hungarian Secretariat had informed him that their formal application for admission to the League would arrive in about ten days.
LEA SUB OP 11 All OPS
21/10/16.
Distributed to Under Secretaries	Oil;EVA,
General
"	fT Directors.	April 11th, 1921.
0 ON P IDIlv 11-': L .
MIMUIES OP DIREC TOES1 MEETING HELD OK SATURDAY APRilL 9 th, 1921.
PKESER T:
M. Monne t '
M, Anzilctti
Dr. Kitobe
Sir Herbert Ames
Mr. Golban
M. M&ntoux
Dr. Van Hamel
M. Hap pard
Mr. Nixon
Dr. Eawkling Yen
Mr, Sweet ser
Mr* „'alters (Secretary)
M. Monnet said "that the two most important things which had recently happened from the point of view of the secretariat were the Conference on Austria and the meeting- of the Amendments Commission, Ho would therefore ask Mr. Nixon and Dr. Van Hamel to give a short account of these two things»
Mr. Kixon said that when the Supreme Council found that it could provide no credi ts for Austria from Gove name nt funds, they had handed the question over to the League, The great objeot of the league at first '¿as to create a new atmosphere of hope in Mus tria instead of the despair log attitude which in itself was one of the chief causes of the depreciation of hem currency, and of her difficulties in general. The financial Commission in Paris had therefore tried to give the ..ustrians a hope that credits from abroad might depend on action by them.
The first decision therefore was that the application of the
*r*S*~*
Her Meulen sehame daoulcl depend on --ustria doing something definite to put her own fin&noes in order, and in particular:
1)	.. Cutting down her budget,
S)	Issuing an internal loan to reduo e paper currenoy
3)	Putting In order the securities she oould offer, so as to have them ready when an opportunity for foreign investment arose.
The Committee is holding out no wild hipe , but if these things are done, the League may be able to secure foreign investments for Austria. • i(or this purpose however, it is further necessary to define the position as to reparations.
This was left vague by the supreme Council vidao in form agreed to raise their reparation claims for "a time to be determined". The Committee has proposed to the supreme Counoil to give them up entirely for 30 years and further to agree that any loan raised in the next 5 years'should be free from all reparation claims. The bupreme Council will probably want to attach conditions to their oonsont, so the Committee has propoaod that it should act as trustee for the bupreme Council in respeot of reparations, thus oonoentrating in one haid all the olaims of Austria’s creditors both'new and old. A note in these terms had been sent to the bupreme Council, and a Committee of three was proceeding to —ustria to continue enquiry on the spot. The Commission would lioet again in the middle of May, and by then
we might hope to have had an answer from the bupreme Counoil., and perhaps even news of possible foreign investments.
Mr. bweetsei esked about the publication of the note,
and it was stated that it was being published simultaneously in London and Paris on -pril 8th or 9th and ccnld be given out here without delay.
M. iionmt said that if the Austrian business were a succes application would probably be made for its extension to other
countries in Control and -.^astern .urope.
Dr. van Hamel said that 0;>ing to the absence of ¿1. VAviani,
s
9

tiie Amendmen ts Commission had not it sens sod important questions, "but only questions of a technical or Juridical nature, and a sub-commis si on had been nominated which would stay in Gen eva and report to the next meeting.
Pb.e most importa ut pro posit ions we re:
By Panada - to delete article 10.
By C-hina - on _rtj.de 81, to strike out "regional
understandings” except the Monroe doctrine.
By fold*e."-Idoyak:!a ~ to extend Article 2]. so as to allow cl non-univorsal conferences and Conventions under the auspices of the League.
By 'france - en .rticle 9 (not yet received]
By the Argentine - On free admission of States.
Possibly M. Yivi&ni would have some more proposals when he returned from -merioa.
Important proposals of a loss general natura were: those put forward, particularly by the Scandinavians, regarding the "Commissions of Conciliation" and the election and tenure of the 4 non-permanent Members of the Gouncil; that of Colombia about the necessity of unanimous decisions; and one or two arising out of the .assembly discussions such as the position of States which had failed to pay their contributions or the admission under restriatiens of very small States.
It was rema.rked that some of the Members seemed to have felt a oertain dissatisfaction at having como to Geneva for a meeting at which no fundamental subjects were discussed, and, that further some of them had not liked the arrangement by which, the sub-Committee was left to the President to nam.e. Phis procedure had often been followed in tne Council, because the names had really first to to found by the Secretariat, .but no such reason existed here. It was rather like the feeling expressed by M. Branting at the assembly when he ^insisted that
a vote should be taken for the President, Phe Members had full confidence in the President’s nominations, but felt it more satisfactory that they should rest on an expressed agreement, M. Moh.net thought as regards the work done by the Commis sion, this was all that could possibly havo boon done in the c ircumstaneos, As regards the nomination of the sub-Commit toe, the feeling shown should be noted for future occasions c
Dr, Van Hamel said ho thought that the members were not on the whole dis satis fie d, and that it was rather some people who wore not members who had suggested that they had come a long way lor little result, '.s regards the sub-Committe (which consisted of M. Eatoyama, Hurst, Fromageot, Rostrepc and ¿able), it was impartial and representafi?e4 and he thought tho method of appointment «as tie best from the point of Yiew of getting effectiYe work done, which was the only point which should be considered,
Gommendatore Anzilotti said he felt that the sub-Committee should be strictly a ’’Commission dTdtude,r, and should not make recommendations, but leave tho mein Commission absolutely free. Dr. Van Haael said he fully agreed, and added that the bub-Commission had been empowered to consult the Socretaiy-General and the Secretariat on their experience o& the working of themCovenant.
M. Mantoux said that the Aaland Islands report existed already in French and English, and diould be ready for circulation to the Council at latest by the end of April,
It awaited only the agreement of Mr. llkus , who would have by nov/ received it aid would Cable his remarks.
Sir Herbert .»mes tdd that the Budget for 19E2 must be presented to the Counoil at its June meeting and must be circulated to the Members three weeks before hand. He was therefore asking soot ions to mate what estimate they could by the middle of May. do must be izareful t$at possible new developments wore duly foreseen.
He suggested that after the Commission of enquiry had finished its work, a special meeting should be held to determine the sectional budgets. This was generally agreed to.
In reply to a question by nr. Hitobe, air Herbert ones said that printing expenses wore all charged at present to & special appropriation f ar printing and publication, and not to the section c aneerned.
(
C OIT]? IDENTI AL
<
(
LEAGUE OP PAT IONS.
list .butod to	No <, 17«
Tinier Secretaries-General and Directors.
Genera,
8th, June 19£1*
MINUTES OP D1RSCTOES 1 MEETING HELD on V/ednesday, 1st June, 19£1, at 3.30 p.m.
Coramendatore Anzilotti, Acting Secretary-General. Dr. Hawkling Yen.
Dr. Nitohe.
M. Rappard*
M. Colban.
Sir Herbert Ames.
Signor Attolico.
Mr. Abraham.
Hr. Philip Baker, Secretary.
1. Rapporteur for "A" Mandates.
M. Piappard reported that there had been great difficulty in finding a Rapporteur for the subject of the "A" Mandatesj which might perhaps have to be raised at the next Council Meeting. Li. Hymans and M. Quinones de Leon had both refused, the latter evidently for political reasons. He had suggested asking Mr. Zoo but the Secretary-General thought he was already overburdened and had telegraphed his view that M. Da Cunha should be invited. M. Rappard proposed to invite M. Da Cunha tut had no hopes that he would accept.
M. Colban said that in this case the Secretary-General would have to be the Rapporteur himself, which would be in accordance with the Council reglemen .
Mr. Abraham thought there were real advantages in this
plan.
LI. Rappard regretted that it involved giving up the Valuable practice of making the members of the Council take
the....
B
the- responsibility for the views put forward by the Secretariat.
Commendatore Anzilotti said that in his view it was the duty of members of the Council to accept the invitation to act as Rapporteur and that he thought the present situation was one that ought never to have arisen«
2, Circulation of documents to Members of the League.
M Rappard reported that M„ Motta had expressed his great satisfaction at the Secretary-General's decision to circulate to all the Members of the league, papers which were intended for the consideration of the Council at the same time as they were circulated to the Council. He thought this would be a valuable way of keeping all Members of the league in touch with the work of the Council.
3• Vacancy on Permanent Mandates Commission.
M. Rappard said that there was still one vacancy on the Permanent Mandates Commission as the American (Mr. Cameron Forbes) who had been invited to take part in the work of the Commission had not accepted. There were Polish, Czech and Swiss candidates for the vacancy. He had written privately to President Lowell of Harvard University asking ’him whether he thought that Mr. Taft would accept an invitation to be member of the Mandates Commission, and if he would accept, whether it would be a good thing to ask »him,
4. Secretary-General's reception to delegates of League of Rations Societies' Conference.
M. Rappard brought forward the question of the arrangements which were to be made for the Secretary-General's reception to the delegates to the league of Rations Societies' Conference Tuesday, June 7, at 5 p.m. After some discussion it was decided that Mr. Bolin of the Informa ion Section should be &ske& to make himself responsible for the arrangements and that he should keep in touch either with Mr. Baker or Major Buxton
who...
a
who should report to the Secretary-General. If Mr. Bolin was not ahlc to do this then Mr» Baker or Major Buxton should ake the responsibility themselves. It was agreed that it ’would he desirable to ask the Director and three other members of the International Labour Office to attend, Mr. Bolin should also be asked to find out how many Press representatives would be here and if it wore possible, to send them invitations to attend,
5« Report of Commission of Enquiry.
Signor Attolico raised various questions arising out of the Report of the Commission of Enquiry, Ee asked if anyone could explain how it was that the Disarmaments Section which had just been created by the Council was not even mentioned in the Report, which he had read only now. He had noticed that the Disarmament Section had been overlooked altogether. Quite apart from this, the question ought to be considered whether or not the Directors should .— following the example of the Secretary-General — in any way accept the recommendations of the Commission in so far as they concerned them.- M. Colban said that thb' omission of the Disarmament Section was in a sense accidental. The point which the Commission wished to make was the desirability of reducing the number of highly paid posts to 9, and this, in turn, was entirely due to their anxiety to recommend some tangible economies in the organisation of tho Secretariat. Considerable discussion ensued on the effect of the report on the legal rights and moral obligations on members of the Secretariat who were now working under a five-year contract, and it was emphasised that the Commission had specifically expressed the desiro that none of their recommendations should he considered as affecting "acquired rights". Thejr merely related to future appointments and to the future organisation of the services of the Secretariat. Signor Attolico pointed out, however, that from the moral point
of
• • • • c
J
n 4 ”
±'
of view, it might perhaps be opportune that the directors should formally express to the Secretary-General their willingness to leave him free to accept as much of the recommendations of the Commission of Enquiry as he might think fit« While no decision was reached, and entire freedom was left to all concerned to act as they thought best for the safeguard of their interests, it was agreed by the directors present that they should, however, take no action without previous consultation with their colleagues «
LEAGUE OF NATIONS
ct
md
to ITn&cr-Socrctarlos-Lirootors.
2l/l0/l7.
GENEVA,
April 18th, 1921.
PROPOSED CHANGE
IN SYSTEM OF NUMBERING OF DOCUMENTS.
In view of the desirability of putting into force the proposed change of numbering as soon as possible, It is proposed to submit the draft circular t: the Secretary-General on Wednesday next, A certain number of comments from Directors have been received already, but should any other directors wisfe to make suggestions or criticisms, it is requested that they shptll send them to Miss Hocking before noon on Tuesday, so that they may be taken into consideration in preparing the revised draft for submission to the Secretary-General,
DISTRIBUTION BRANCH,
lio. 16
■U-Kj-Lfu-Ci OF vi-eM IOlio.
Geneva, 17th June, 1921.
. »Id on .v'fcdnosday, June IS. 1&21, at 5. JO v; ,.i.
.-resent:	Decrotary-General . in the Chair.
Oommendatore anzilotti. hr. iiitot-6.
M.Mantoux.
Dr. van Haiael.
Mr. Colban.
Signor .ittolioo.
Mr. Swefetser.
Dane hachel Crowds.
¡¿.Jean Bieler.
Mr» xhilip Saxer, Secretary.
I.	: nCH-. J..;uaf CCaRESPOMD^nC-
1. i'he Decretory Beaerul said that ho thought that it was both necessary and dosirahle that Cndcr-Secretaries-General and Directors should sign acre of the secretariat; * t correspondence themselies, This would emphasize outside responsibility of the sections for the conduct of their business, and he thought it was good* after considerable discussion a proposal by Mr. Colton was agreed to. This proposal was to the effect that all correspondence should be divided into three categories as follows;
l aJ Im ortant official letters. i.e. letters of real 7-olitical importance, letcers involving questions of principle, letters officially addressed to heads of Stater or ^-nibas^adors. Such letters should in all cases be signed by the Secretary General himself.
To I Lther official letters concernin'" the current business of the Section which technic r.ll./ should be aimed by the Secretary General, e.g., letters communicating decisions taxon by the Council,etc. Such
letters
letters should be signed : " For the Secretary General, X.Y.Z., Director
of...............Section".
ic) Official or unofficial letters which evidently emanate from
the Section and which arc exclusively concerned with the work of the Section, e.g., acknowledgments of Minority appeals,etc.	Such letters
should be signed by the Directors in the following way:- "1.Y.Z. Director of .........Section".
2.	With regard to what correspondence should be considered as falling into each of the above categories this was agreed to be a matter which lay within the discretion of tho Directors, who must decide in each case on their own responsibility.
«part from the general indications given in the classification above, there was one useful working rule suggested by Mr. Golban, l.e. , that Directors should themselves sign all letters on files which they would not in the ordinary course send to the ^ecretary-General for his information.
3.	It was agreed that rules of courtesy, to be followed in Secretariat correspondence, should be prepared and circulated. 1th regard to the English correspondence, the aecreta-y General daid that he was sure the most satisfactory course was to adhere in every letter to the formula : "Your obedient Servant". With regard to the French correspondence, it •»vac agreed, on Dr. van Hamel's suggestion, that M.'feixidor should bo askod to draft a circular for distribution.
II. Mr-aDaf-S.
The Secretary General reported that the definition of the Mandates would not be taken up by the ^ouncil at the next meeting.
•fhe only question in connection with Mandates which would be discussed was tho request for interim reports from the Mandatory lowers which the
Assembly
Assembly lias requested the Council to ask for. ?ho Acting President
rs
of the C'ouncil was writing a letter to the Principal Allies asking them finally to settle with tho United States the outstanding questions with regard to the allocation of Mandates in order that the council might proceed before the next, assembly to the definition of their terms.
III. COLD ibhi.C.
fhe Secretary General said that he regretted it was not possible to pay all salaries at a fixed rate of 24 Swiss francs to the pound sterling as the International Labour Office were doing. If the Secretariat followed this plan, by far the greater part of the savings which had been made in salaries budgeted for this year would be absorbed and these savings are required for readjustment purposes, as ho was anxious to meet cases of real hardship, he proposed that the following arrangements should be made :
laries of ¿600 and under should be paid at 24 Swiss *'rsto the pound sterling.
tt	" ¿601 - ¿800	tf ft		" 23.50	ft	ti »*	tt	tf
If	" ¿801 -¿1 ,000	1»	it	" 23	fl	ti »1		tt
ft	" ¿1,001 -al,200	ft M	»1	" 22.50	ft	It Tf	it	tt
	Other	salaries	to	be paid at	the	current	rate	of oxch.an'
Iy.	x'hgahmTPS COMMITJj:,h.
fhe Secretary-General reported that the ^aendruents Committee had been exceedingly successful. fhe Committee had worked very well and had proposed at least two important amendments of which one - the Csecho- 1 ovale amendment concerning the calling of regional conferences on the initiative of the ¿ea&ue - might
have
-4
have great effect on future development of the "eaguo. The Committee had decided that it would be necessary to hold another meeting , probably during the- -assembly in September, in order to consider amendments relating to the ^ourt of international Justice, article 10, and some other outstanding mnendmants.
V. --,LC0C. flUi: COLLITTSE.
The secretary General reported that the coumittee on the allocation of expenses of the League had after all sent in an unanimous report, which was ground for great satisfaction.
VI . COLOlhlL Hh-HVDT'S ■..Pai-CH ¿DP SOUTH ¿.umICa.
Dr. Van Hamel said that ho gathered in -London that Colonel Harvey's speech had reduced a great effect in diplomatic circles. He also heard that diplomatic opinion in the Hague had been greatly influenced. Colonel Harvey is at the present time spreading reports that President Harding has a Court plan of fcir own, and even had gone so far as to till .loblemaire that he hoped to kill the League.
Dr. Van Hamel wondered whether Colonel Harvey's efforts were ha.ing an influence in stopping the South --.merican States from the ratifying the Court, hr. Colb an also said that n.Zahle had reported pessimistically on the League to the Danish Government after his recent visit to Geneva, and that this had also made a considerable impression in diplonatic circles in London.
Mr. S'.veetser remarked that he thought it should be remenSered that Colonel Harvey was late editor of "Harvey's Veekly", the bitterest of all anti-Wilcon journals. There was evidence that a great rt-action against Colonel Harvey was setting in in the United ¡States. The Secretary General said that the united States Government has officially appointed a delegate to the Labour Office ¿migration Conference in
august
-5-
august . It 0&d be on reported in the .tress that j resident Harding had communicated his scheme for an association of nations to the British Government, but he had discovered that there was no thuth in this report, and that ¿resident Harding had co ..¿tunica ted no plans whatever.
bignor nttolico thought that it was very important to try and take some action firstly, to find out the enact state of opinion in South nxnerica, and secondly, to influence that opinion in any way ve could. He proposed th.:t all Directors should get their personal friends in South «merida to give them their opinion a to the present state of feeling, and also proposed they might do the cane thing with regard to the °nitcd Status. It would bo inter sting to find out from individuals, who so opinion could be relied on, what the °nited States Government believed the results of its action to be on South aaer ic an He _ ub1i c s.
iir. Sweetser said that the south .maerican press v;as taking more League news than ever before, and the secretary General said he had heard from an anti-¿.a ague British correspondent in i'o*v York that the United States attempt to detach South niuerica from the League had completely failed, because the south American btates had been so much impressed by the proceedings of the -assembly.
Dr. Litobo said that he had received letters from :one very influential poo.-le in the United btates, who intended to come over for the meeting of the .--ssembly.
It .van agreed that in addition to the mission which li.Boguiera is now carrying out, , .Mantoux should ask a.Dunya to make enquiries and all Directors should make any demarches with their friends in South aaerica and the united btates which they might think useful. Ill
Ill
-6
VII.	aAIaJCD ISHARPS.
Pile Secretary General reported that the Swedish. Government has asked that the Jurists Committee shall he summoned to attend the meeting of the Council. ¿¿.Mantoutj had telegraphed to the Jurists Committee requesting their attendance, but at the sane time pointing out that it was probable that the questions on which they had been asked to advise would, in fact, not be discussed again by the Council. He thought it probable they would refuse to come, and hoped that this would be the case. VIII.
VIII.	PALESTINE Ilnhlh-Ih.
Mr. Sweetsor drew attention to a very important letter written by Judge branrloie and other influential Americans, urging that the Council should immediately define the Palestine Mandate.
He thought the acknowledgment to this letter should be very' carefully drafted, and that, if possible, great publicity should be given to the correspondence.
LEAGUE OF HATIONS.
trTouted tn under--ct.ar ies-&eneral. &
21/10/18*
CONFIDENTIAL
Geneva,
April 19th 1921.
WEEKLY REPORTS OF PERSONNEL.
With reference to the memorandum oiroulatad «n this subject ^ *n February 22, 1921. I should like again to explain the
Secretary of the Staff Committee* Even when there are no ohanges or absences to be recorded, this should also be reported.
•Unless these reports are furnished regularly, it may be ' heoessary for the Financial Director to withold authorisation of payments until the Section concerned has sent In the weekly report, as under present conditions it has been found exceedingly difficult, if not impossible, for his department to keep accurate payrolls and expenses accounts without information whioh the weekly reports are counted upon to furnish-.
■ importance of having the report sheets sent in every week to the
(Initialled) 3.C;
April 18th, 1921
LE ¿CRIS OF NATIONS
tributed to Under Secretary-General fl.ri~dDL-.yi ctors„
No. 19.
Geneva,
1st July, 1921.
MINUTES OF DIRECTORS' MEETING held on Wednesday. June 29th. at 5-50 p.m.
Present:	Secretary-General, in the Chair.
M. Monnet.
Dr. Nitohe.
Signor Attolico.
K. Bieler.
Dr. Van Hamel.
Mr. McKinnon Wood.
M, Comert.
Commondatore Anzilotti.
M. Mantoux.
M. Eappard.
Mr. Philip Baker, Secretary.
RECENT MEETING OF THE COUNCIL .
The Secretary-General said that an important lesson to he learnt from the strenuous meeting of the Council was the very great advantage of holding Council Meetings In Geneva. During the last fortnight the Central Services had accomplished really remarkable work in the production and distribution of documents, and the whole Secretariat machine had worked extremely smoothly. He suggested that the gratitude of the Directors' Meeting might be expressed to Mr. Huston for the work which the Central Services had accomplished.
HOLIDAYS
The Secretary-General reported that he proposed to be away from July 4th to August, and that M. Monnet would
would be in Geneva during that time, except for the da vs when his presence in Paris for the Disarmament Commission would he necessary. As the Disarmament Commission might last ten days, he enquired whether Dr. Nitobe and Commends,tore Anzilotti could so arrange their holidays that one of them should he in Geneva in order to take charge when I". Monnet was away. Corrigenda tore Anzilotti and Dr. Nitobe said that this could he arrange without difficulty* The Secretary-General said that it would also he advantageous if the different Directors could arrange, so far as possible, not to he all away at the same time.
PONTHLY SUMMARY
The Secretary-General pointed out that the Monthly Summary had had a great success, was being very widely read and was already being regarded as the official organ of the League. He therefore pointed out the great importance of maintaining a high standard of accuracy in the information given in the Summary, and suggested that it was of special importance that Sections should supervise the account given in the Summary of the work for which they are responsible.
M. Comert said that it was the invariable practice of the Information Section to secure the approval of the Sections in the way suggested by the Secretary-General, but that it was very important for the Monthly Summary to be produced punctually, and that considerations of time must therefore be taken into account.
INTHRHATIORAL GOURT.
Cormendatore Anzilotti reported that Venezuela had ratified the Court, and that Costa Rica has l£id before its Parliament a Pro jet de Loi for the ratification.
COMMISSION OIs! ARTICLE 18,
Dr. Van Hamel reported that the Commission on Article 18 had prepared a report both on Article 18 and on Article 10. Fith regard to Article 10, their conclusion was that it did not add greatly to the obligations contained in the other Articles of the Covenant, but that it gave expression to one of the fundamental principles of the League of Nations.
The Secretary-General suggested that in view of the nature of the report ira de by the Commission on Article 10, and in view of the fact that it was only a report to another Commission, it would be better not to give it publicity in the Press.
DISTRIBUTION OF DOCUMENTS.
Mr. Colban said that a lesson to be drawn from the recent Council Meeting was, in his view, the necessity of restricting the number of papers circulated to the Council, at any rate, by his Section. He thought that only those papers should be circulated which were essentially necessary to enable the members of the Council to take a decision on any given point, Other documents which they had been in the habit of circulating hitherto must be kept in the Secretariat archives at the disposition of the Members of the League.
After some discussion, the Secretary-General suggested that the members of the Council and their Secretaries would be able to follow the papers issued by the Secretariat with greater ease, if some clearer method of sectional numbering were adopted, in addition to the system of
I
distribution numbering, which ms now followed. He suggested that at the top of each document on any given subject, there should be a heading in large type with a serial number, e.g. "AALAND ISLANDS I, AALAHD ISLANDS ?}x, etc.
M. Monnet pointed out that it was chiefly within the responsibility of the Directors to see that their documents were presented to the Council in as perfect a form as possible. It was suggested by Mr. Bieler that the League incurred considerable expense because a great many documents are not read over by skilled proof readers before they are sent to the Printers.
The Secretary-General suggested that the whole matter of distribution, and the proposal for additional Sectional numbering of documents, should be referred to M. Vigier and his colleagues for report.
1, Professor Lappard drew attention to the amount of work which was laid on the Council by these administrative Questions. He thought that while the Council dealt mainly with such problems it would be impossible to secure that important statesmen should attend the meetings.
Seme discussion took place on the question but it was decided that as it was clearly impossible to take any action for- the time being the further consideration of the matter should be postponed though its importance was fully recognised.
8. T:i PQrahY ABLUENTS COMMISSION
Signor Attolico brought up the question of the agenda for the meeting on July 16th, of the Temporary Armaments Commission. He proposed to place on the agenda, the following items, but he would be glad of any further suggesti ons:
-4-
1# The Constitution of the Commission itself.
2i A series of reports on such subjects as:
(a)	Work of general interest carried out up to date by the Permanent Armaments Commission.
(b)	The answers received by the League on the question of the ratification of the Arms“traffic Convention.
(c)	The answers received bynthe League to the questionnaire on the adoption of a budgetary limitation of Armaments* for the next two years.
3. The programme for the future work of the Commission.
In reply to a question by M. Comert, Signor Attolico said
that he hoped that there would be big publicity for the first
meeting of the Commission. M. Comert said that he doubted
whether it was wise to give publicity to each meeting in the
Commission unless we were sure that it would produce some tangibl
results. He thought that it would be sufficient if the
Commission could sketch out a programme for its future activity,
but if it met without even doing this, it would be better to
avoid publicity as much es possible.
M. Donnet supported what If. Comert said, and urged that as it was exceedingly doubtful whether the Commission would, in fact, be able to produce any tangible results, at any rate for a long time, it would be better to avoid much publicity. He "thought it of great importance to have a definite and well formulated plan of the exact results which we hoped the Confereno would produce.
The Lecretary-Ceneral replied that he thought publicity of
/ —
greatkImportance. The mere fact that the League had succeeded in cabling together such a very remarkable Ooramissipn to deal with -the subject of Disarmament was, in itself, a great -*chietvernent, and would produce a great impression in America, tohere^all the liberal forces were now t1^ins: their atte&'fion
i
to the subject of Disarmament. He suggested that publicity
should be secured for the fact of its meeting rather than
for the day to day work of the Commission. If at the end of
its meeting the Commission could report that it had appointed
oub-Committees to deal with special points, this would be
achievement enough for the first meeting. In any case, if
the Commission ultimately failed to produce tangible results,
the obvious conclusion would be that Disarmament was a with
problem/which tt was not possible to deal. If the plan now being set in motion did not work, nothing would; hut he himself believed that in due course, perhaps in a yearTs time, the Commission would produce some form of recommendations which could be circulated to the Governments for their consideration, and then considered by the Assembly or at a special Congress. It seemed to him that there was reasonable hope of expecting results in this way. In any case it was no use trying to predict either success or failure; we must be confident that publicity for so well organised an attempt to solve a great problem could produce nothing but good.
Dr. Van Hamel expressed his agreement with the Secretary-general.
Professor Attolico pointed out that it was very important that the public should not be led to expect immediate results from the meeting of the Commission. This was unanimously 8-greed to.
-6-
LEAGUE OF	HA TIG I'TS .
CONFIDENTIAL.
Sic attached minute it forwarded identically for the coneideration of r ¿iecretarja General's & Directors. J
Distributed to Under Secretaries General and Directors .
21/10/19
GENEVA,
Ayril 20tn, 1921.
To: the Secretary General,
From: Dr . van Hamel .
-Ik) me it seems that the position of the League of Nations io-at present undoubtedly rather critical and that it is in danger of getting more so.
There does not seem to be official support from any side whatsoever. France is afraid of estranging the United States if she allows the League to give a sign of life. For England the question of naval reduction with the United States prevails over all other points, and she loses her interest in the League. Other big powers have always been sceptical.
The small Towers take a passive attitude and do not dare to take any initiative.
In public opinion the League is rapidly losing-ground because of its inactivity. It cannot live on for always gnawing at the questions with whicn it has been dealing, and no other questions of importance seem to require the action of the League. France and Switzerland are disputing about the zones of Savoy, but where is the mediation of the League which would seem so indicated? Otner difficulties are arising in other fjlaces of the world, but they take no notice of the League and the League takes no notice of them. There is the big issue of the reparation question between the Allies and Germany embittering the spirit of tne world to the highest degree, and no sign or possibility of some salutary use to be made of the League of Nations instrument. The big Towers are dealing with all questions outside tne League. Tne Mandate scheme seems to have fallen asleep again. Tne Turks and the
2
Greeks are fighting. The states that have arisen out of the late Austrian-Hungarian Monarch/ are meeting at home; and Belgium and Holland cannot agree on the Scheldt, and so on and so on.
The only point of life may be the i’inancial Committee which has now been called upon to lend a hand in the reconstruction of Austria, but this item alone cannot weigh against all the other points; the more so because for the present at least it does not seem to have any very impressive character.
If this goes on it can hardly be doubted that the League will disintegrate, or carry on a passive, bloodless existence.
The Council has not been meeting for months. Various remarks arise of countries disinteresting themselves from the League.
And altnough it may not easily be dissolved by an explicit decision, it may gradually die of inanition.
It may be that tais is fatal and inevitable, that the world was not ripe to accept in practice tne machinery of this ideal; but in any event it should not be allowed to happen v/itnout the strongest efforts for its vreservation. It should also be remembered what a disastrous effect tne failure of the League would have on the general conditions in many countries and on the public mentality. Governments may for a time be blind to this fact, they would perhaps be reminded of it, to their own detriment, too late.
It is, therefore, ouite clear tnat tne League Should do its best to stop it own ruin, to prevent tne loss of its life-blood, to regain the sympathies which it is losing and to increase the strength of which it is so in need.
It seems to be one of the fatal accidents in tne existence of the League that there is no proper and well-inuicated responsible organ to direct its action. The Council would oe tne proper authority, but it consists of Representatives, meeting, at remote intervals, each of whom represents, in the lirst place, his own national interest. Moreover, they are all so occupied with their own national government problems that they can hardly
- 3 -
I form a collective board, to pilot the League through its perils, file assembly «gave some hints and some inspiration, out it will hardly be possible to wait till the next Assembly for a fresh supply* Indeed it might well be possible tnat the next Assembly |ff0uld become the death-bel scene of the League.
The Governments of the smaller states Members of the league have behaved in a most disappointing manner, not daring to take any part in the initiative which to a great extent would react to their own benefit. However, this disheartening fact has to be accepted .
There remains one organ which has the possibility of doing something - the Secretary-General and his staff. It may be that it was not the original intention of the Covenant to call mou the Secretary-General as the saviour of the League of Nations, and it is certain that he is not responsible for the conduct of its .flairs, but, if experience shows tnat nobody else cares enough for the idea which has been created by the Covenant, to take efficient action, that part of the crew that is left on the bridge has the practical obligation of trying to do wiiat it can.
My first conclusion, therefore, is that the Secretariat should not let things go adrift, but maxe up its mind as to what1 has to be done, and to do it.
The paper which I am now writing is only of a very
provisional and very tentative nature. As a matter of fact it ite
V
the first time that I am putting on paper the ideas which have fcjr some time been worrying me, as much I feel sure as they have been worrying the Secretary-General and my colleagues.
v
In trying to sum up the causes of the evolution which-distresses us, I state the following points
1.	The Position taken by the United States.
2.	The abstinence of the League in most matters of international interest.
Internal weakness.
I
-4-
There are parts of these matters in which the Secretariat may not be able to do much, but in each of them it may be able to do something and, at any rate, it can take them up for careful and methodical consideration.
Hebe are a few general suggestions.
1•	Position of the United States.
It is clear that the attitude taken by the United States is dominated to a great extent by misunderstanding and a certain amount of Misrepresentation. They might disappear eventually if the League could carry on a normal existence for a few years without the United States. This risk, however, cannot be taken. There must come some action from a part of the.'League in order to try to come to an understanding with leading opinion in America and with the leading men of its Government. It should not be impossible to expel the misapprehensions which have been created in the minds of the people over there, and it should also not be impossible to suggest practical arrangements of collaboration $0 President Harding and his advisers. This kind of action cannot be left under the present circumstances to the Representatives of the various Governments, or to the Governments themselves. I have explained in the beginning ho?.’ little these Governments can at present be the trustees and defenders of the League of nations' principle, when it.requires to be piloted into a safe harbour in the United States.
I therefore think that a League of Nations' Delegation should be sent out to the United States in order to get into touch with the Government and with public opinion, and to try to obt j. n the necessary arrangement. The nature of this delegation and the form in which it should be decided upon are open for every discussion. It may even be discussed whether it should go at once as a public and official mission or whether it should start in a more semi-official manner. At any rate it should include that part of Uurope (and perhaps of other parts of the world) which
-5-
has up to the present not pleaded to the United States at all in favour of the League - namoly, the smaller countries. They should be able to dispel the suspicion of super-Government and of big-Power intrigues which the propaganda in the United States has connected with the existence of the League of Nations. They should be able to make it c^ear to the people of the United States how far they have fallen behind the expectations which they could fulfil.
I have always been astonished that the smaller Powers have not taken this line of action on their own account long ago. The initiative could now be taken by the Secretariat, of course by making proposals to the Council.
I would also like to	mako clear that	I do not propose to exclude
the big	Powers, but it	should be	clear chat every Member of the Delegation should
go ther9 as representing the interests and the spirit of the activity of the League of Nations, not as an emissary of his Government.
I may be entirely mistaken,, but I am convinced that by a step of this kind the estrangement between the United States and the League of Nations could be dispelled.
2. ibstfendnee of the League in important matters of international interest.
The League	should be	a factor in the	present difficulties arising
amongst	nations. This	is the very reason of its	existence and in theory it is
generally agreed that the League can be a most beneficient factor. The position into which it has got makes it rather difficult to take part now without giving the impression of interfering and without creating undesirable reactions amongst the Governments. It is a matter of great delicacy, but it is also a matter of decided necessity.
I think that perhaps the Secretariat could begin by making a careful st^dy of the various problems that are troubling the world, such as the German problem, by foraing a considered and impartial opinion and by elaborating, for itself to begin with, suggestions which from an objective international point of view may seem the ipost recommendable to be applied. Thesd suggestions should specifically define the possible use
-6-
that might "be made of the League of Nations' machinery for the purpose.
If they seem satisfactory to us - that is to the Secretary-General and to the leading men of various nationalities with whom he has surrounded himself — they might perhaps he definitely placed before other people and he brought forward in the Press.
I am not for the moment going so far as to propose outspoken proposals to be made by the Secretary-General in public. I do think that the moment will come when such may be the duty of the Secretariat, under whose care the League has been placed to a great extent, but for the present the method which I have suggested seems more satisfactory.
It would mean, I repeat, that in every pending question the Secretariat would form for itself a well-considered plan of possible action and would then try to get the services of the League accepted.
3.	Internal weakness.
I cannot get rid of the idea that the present crisis requires more cohesion and more comnon activity in the Secretariat. If it is to be an International body and an international factor, it is not enough that the various services should employ people of various nationalities. The leading people of various nationalities should also keep closely together and try to form a kind of common opinion on the important general problems of international politics, and on the possible policy of the League in connection therewith.
.As I have come to the conclusion that the League will founder if the Secretariat does not develop a vital activity, I feel that the co-operation within the Secretariat should be intensified, especially with a view to the general problems.
This also is a matter on which I do not venture to bring forward definite proposals. I have only tried to explain the principle which has occurred to me.
VAN HAMEL.
19th April,1921.	Director,
Legal Section.
LEAGUE 0? MUONS
No. 20
)istribnted to UncLer-jflcretari'es-General and r” THrectors.
Geneva,
11th July, 1921.
MINUTES OP DIRECTORS’ MEETING HEED ON
FRIDAY, 8th JULY, 1921.
CONFIDENTIAL.
\
Commendatore Anzilotti
Dr. Nitobe
Prof. Attolico
Mr. Colban
M. Rappard
Dame Rachel Crowdy
Dr • Hawk ling Yen
Major Abraham
Mr. Bieler
Mr. McKinnon Wood
Mr • Sweetaer
Dr • Hudson
Dr. Steegman
Mr. Walters {Secretary}.
DR. STEEGMAN said he had just returned from the United States where ha had gone in connection with the League Health organisation to find out what was their attitude towards the Office International and whether they would agree to make the new Organisation by a change in the Rome Convention. The French Government had written to all signatories of that Convention ashing their agreement to this, but in their letter had proposed certain reservations which they intended to make to the resolutions accepted by their Delegates at the Assembly. The American Government had replied that they would have nothing to do with the new Organisation - a reply which he subsequently discovered was sent by the State Department without even consulting the Health Department on the matter at all.
He had found that the United States maintained their decision not to agree to altar the Rome Convention if it meant
2
the areation of a League Organisation, this in spite of the fact that they are dissatisfied with tls Office and intend to propose ohanges in this organisation» They also declined to allow G-eneral Blue, their Healtli representative in Paris, to serve as a member of the new temporary League Commission, although--the Surgeon-General and the technical Under-Secretary were in favour of this® Thus, it was clear that the Assembly resolutions were defeated by America Ts attitude» Although 26 out of the 32 signatories of the Convention were in favour of the change in the statutes, and nearly 20 other States not signatory had also voted for the new scheme, the attitude of a single signatory, viz« the United States, made progress on those lines technically impossible* New proposals for a permanent organisation must be prepared to be placed before the Assembly in September.
The official attitude of America was definitely hostile at this moment, and the State Department was evidently out to destroy the League and put nothing in its place, but American opinion so far as he could judge from so Irief a visit, was confused rather than hostile» The poople he had seen advised that the League should go ahead with tho Health scheme, without further efforts to bring America in.
A short discussion followed on the state of Amerioan opinion, in wlùoh SB» HUDSON said that the invitation to the four members of the Court of Arbitration to nominate candidates for the Permanent Court had much embarrassed official circles. One of the four,
Pudge Gray, had publicly stated that ie would go ahead in nominating.
PE0E3S30B AT TO DIG 0 said he had had two interviews with id. Viviaai in Paris and had given him a general memorandum on the line of action of the first session of the Disarmament Commission. This seemed a matter of general interest, and he would circulate hig Memorandum to the Sections.
He raised the question of the attendance registers. A majority
N« ¿51
of Directors had been absent when it was decided on, and they agreed that the matter required further discussion. He proposed it should bo on the agenda for the next meeting. He considered they were a mechanical control, applicable only to the mechanical services, and feared that in the others they would die of non-obvServance. We must face the big job of examining as a whole the recommendations of the Enquiry Commission; we were now dealing with it in scraps. All Directors should be ready to offer their observations when ashed by the Secretary-General.
ME. COLBAH agreed. He, as Chairman of the Staff Committed, intended, with the Secretary-General's agreement to submit his views on the report, ahd ho was sure the Secretary-General would welcome those of other Directors.
further, he had sent round a circular about Assistant Secretaries .find Stenographers. According to rule, a Section could only have two, but this rule was not strictly observed. He asked Directors to state their case without fail before July 15th, as it was essential to have the matter definitely regulated before the Assembly.
MB. 3WE2TSER said the Hungarian Charge ¿'Affaires had asfed to receive League documents^ What was our policy regarding such requests? It was agreed that he could be given free all published documents and any information, bulletins, etc. sent out by the Information Section.	MR. BA?PAHD thought that generally
speaking we could give away documents on which action was completed, but of course we could not promise beforehand to give all documents or all information on a particular subject. This was generally agreed to.
M* BAP.E&BD said the Swiss Government consented to give freedom from douane to the Secretary-General, Under Becretaries-G en oral and Directors. Some Members objected to this, but it vra.3 POintod out that the action was taken on the Secretariat's own
suggestion.
*-*4:*-*
MONSIEUR ATTOLiOO thought we should consider putting the whole question of diplomatic privileges before the Assembly. COMMEBDAQJOHE AN2IL0TTI thought no general rule could be drawn up on the subject. DR* HUDSON said he intended to prepare a memorandum on the ■ question. He did not approve of the solution now reached, although it was on the legal Section°s proposal.
DALE BACHED 0ROWDY said the Conference on Women and Children had sat for 5 days and adopted 15 Resolutions, four or five of which were of a very useful character, particularly:
a)	Setting up of an Advisory Committee to be composed of
5	or 6 Government Delegates and 3 assessors re~ ' presenting respectively the International Bureau, the Catholic, Jewish and Protestant Organisations, and the Women's International organisations.
These private organisations had been much pleased on this dec is ion.
b) An extradition clause to be put in the Convention.
c) Age of consent should be raised to 21.
d)	Stricter control of Agencies for sending girls abroad.
A difficulty had been raised at the close by the French. Delegation, who said that they could not sign unless the signed
document was to be lodged in Paris, where previous agreements on
the subject were kept. As a solution 2 documents were signed, one to
go to Paris, one to be dealt with as the Council may decide.
Generally speaking Delegates seemed to think the results wero better than they had expeoted, and DAME RACHEL CROWDY felt it had been a success, particularly if the Resolutions could be farmed into a Convention. It was hoped this might be proposed by a Council Member and that a protocol could be opened at the Assemble *
LEaGUS OP HAT I OHS -
COHDIDaHT IaL .
Die tributed to Under Secretaries- General and Dir o ctors>
21/10/20.
Gene va,
April 21st, 1921.
MI NUT Do OP DI RAC TO la1 MSATIHG Ho ID OH
..HENDoDaY, APRIL 20th, 1921.
PR. 3 OH T
The Secretary-General.
Commendatore Anzilotti
Dr. Hitohe
o i Heroert ,-jnes
M. Colban
JI.Go ort
Dr. van Hamel
M. Rappard
ELr. Hixon
Dr. Steegman
Dr. Hawkling Yen
Mr. Walters	(Secretary)
The Secretary-General said that the first point which he wished to raise was that of the question of the Russian refugees.
It would he remembered that the Council had divided this question into three: -
(1)	the legal status of the refugees
(2)	the question of repatriation or emigration
(3)	relief
and had decided that (3) was a matter entirely for the Red Cross, hut had instructed the Secretariat to send round a memorandum ashing for suggestions regarding questions (l) and (?) and to appoint a particular member of the Secretariat to watch the matter. Ho single section was naturally indicated to deal with it, but it seemed time now to find a member of the staff who could do so.
The Drench Government had written urging the appointment of a Commissioner and it seemed possible that the League might nave to take this line, but if so it must be made clear that the
2 ~
Commissioner would have nothing whatever to dgfoith relief, for if once it was thought that the League had any responsibility for this, voluntary aid would dry up end it was certain that no Government funds would be forthcoming. He wop-id like Directors to give a little thought to the selection of a poss*-ible Commissioner, as regards the member of the Secretariat, he had thought that Ji. Villari would do the work admirably if the Information Section could spare him for the purpose. It would not, at any rate for the present, be nearly a full-time job. M. Comert agreed to ask M. Vil lari if he were willing to take it on.
The Sub-Commit tee of the Amendments Commission had been instructed to consult the Secretariat regarding .-jnendments which their experience might show to be desirable. The Secretary-General thought in principle that it was a mistake to try and get Amendments put through at the next assembly, even though in themselves they might be desirable. He nade an exception for a possible Amendment on allocation of expenses and perhaps for a re-drafting of the paragraph of article IV dealing with interest-ed States sitting on the Council. However, he would ask Directors to send in any jnendments they thought necessary in time to be discussed at the neat meeting. Dr. Nitobe asked whether the Committee was dealing with drafting corrections as distinct from substantive amendments. Dr. van Hamel said they were going through the whole Covenant from this point ox view, but he
r
thought that this was a very dangerous operation.
The Secretary-General said that a tentative agenda for the Council meeting which would probably be on June 6 had been
3
drawn up; it consisted largely of reports-(copy of agenda ■attached hereto: it is requested that any additions or remarks may he sent at once to Major Buxton)»
The necessary documents ought to be ready by about the 1st of May»
As regards the from ©f the Budget, the Secretary General said he wished to suggest that it should be made clear that certain sections of the Secretariat were in the main themselves the Secretariats of organs which were doing work, not independently of but to some exteht separately from, the Council and the Assembly»
He did.not mean that the salaries of the members of these sections should be included under the head of indirect expenses for technidal organisations, but that they should be separately classified under the general head of salaries. Sir Herbert Amos said that in any case the Commission of Enquiry was-showing a tendency to ask for much morS detail to he given in the 1922 Budget and that it should include for comoarison the figures of 1921. Mr. Colban said that he thought this was a reasonable demand and that the* details given might well include in certain cases a statement of exactly what Treaty stupulations tvere responsible for the existence of certain sections.
The Secretary General said thero was a further question nether it would not streagthen our hands and the hands of the Council in submitting the Budget to the Assembly, if the Budgets of technical organisations were submitted to and passed beforehand by ~th,e various committees. Mr. Nixon pointed out that this was done last time in the case of the ^Economic and Financial Committee and Sir Herbert Ames agreed that it would be a wise plan/.
-4-
Dr. Steegman pointed out that as regard.s the Health Section, it could probably not be done for the 1922 Budget.
Sir Herbert Ames drew attention to the necessity of arranging beforehand in each case hew to meet the expenses of League action undertaken exclusively in the interests of two or a small number of members, as in the cases of the Polish-Lithuanian dispute and the Aaland Islands dispute. This was generally agreed to, but it was pointed out by several Directors that each case must be dealt with on its merits and that it should never be forgotten that it was muoh to the interest of all members of the League to get amicable settlements to questions at issue between any two of them.
The Secretary General said that he felt the need of a short pamphlet - say 20 pages - giving in a readable form an account of the work done by the League up till now, of which a new edition oould be issued say every three months or as required.
M. Comert proposed that Mr. Sweetser should be asked to prepare this. It was agreed that while it should not take the form of an official report, it should be made quite clear that it was an authoritative statement issued by the Secretariat. M. Oomert said that in addition to the long statement on the Assembly which had been given very wide circulatinn, his section had issued a supplementary statement on the work of the ladt Council meeting and was sending round to a great number of newspapers eto. an abridged edition of the Monthly Bulletin prepared by the Precis-Writing Section.
The Seeretary-General said that on the return of the Transit Section from Barcelona, he would ask it to take up with energy the question of the carrying out of the agreement reached at the Paris Cionfeiienoe on Passports.
DATES 0? MEETINGS OP COMMISSIONS
Dr, van Hamel said that the next meeting of the Amendments Commission would he about the 10th or 15th of May* though it was very difficult to feel sure about it.
The Meeting of the Commission on Article 18 would follow immediately.
Dr. Hawkling Yin said the Opium Committee met on May 2.
He would then submit his Budget to it as suggested previously.
Commen&atore Anzilotti said the Blockade Commission could not meet before the middle of May and probably not before June
The White Slave Traffic Conference was fixed for June 30.
Dr* Steogman said the Temporary Health Committee would meet in Paris on May 6.
Mr. Nixon said the Economic and Financial Committee would meet on May 12, if possible in Geneva.
M. Rappard said the Mandates Commissi on would he expected meet in August.
The Secretary-General said that he had received a letter from the league of Nations Union saying that they would like to send 100 members of their different branches to Geneva in August and hoped that different members of the Secretariat would m<£ke statements to then about the work of their sections A discussion followed on the question whether it would be
desirable to try and get the voluntary societies of other nations to do the same thing at the same time. It was pointed out that the meeting of the Union of Voluntary Societies would take place here in June and that this question could well he left to them to settle at that time.
The Secretary-General said he had received a Note from Dr„ Van Hamel on the general policy of the league. He would like to circulate It and discuss it at the next meeting.
Hr. van Hamel agreed cn the understanding that it was circulated only for the confidential consideration of Hirectors.
Mr. Oolban said that his section and one or two others would next year probably require to spend a certain amount of money in travelling expenses and he thought that sections in making up their Budgets should take account of this item,
In the actual Budget it would appear not in the separate item of each section, hut in the general item: ’’Travelling Expenses of the Secretariate”
Hr. van Hamel reminded the Secretary-General that the summons for the Assembly must go out during the first week of May, together with a provisional agenda. The Secretary-General asked that all sections should take this into consideration and forvvard any statements on the agenda as soon as possible.
Sir Herbert Ames said he would ask to have a discussion on the Provisional Budget a fortnight hence, so that it could be ready to go out to the Council by about May 15.
AN-NEZ to MINUTES of DIRECTORS' MEET IN G of APRIL 20th.
PROVISIONAL AGENDA FOR THE JUNE COUNCIL MEETING.
Constitution of the Free City of Danzig. ¿rms Traffic at Danzig. Defence of the Free City of Danzig.. Polish demand for certain measures in execution of Article 28 of the P^lish-Danzig Treaty, progress Report on Danzig.	M. Colban.
German Protest against French troops and military jurisdiction in the Saar. German protest against expulsions from the Saar.	M. Colban.
Finnish and Albanian Minorities. Progress Report by the Secretary-General on other Minority Questions.	M. C©lban.
Report of Aaland Commission. Report from Brussels Conference on the dispute between Lithuania and Boland. (Status of Albania).	M. Mantoux.
Report on the composition of the Blockade Commission Report on the International Court of Justice.	Commendatore Anz ilotti,.
Report of the Economic and Financial Commission Report af the Commission ©n the Allocation of Expenses.	M.Nixen.
Report on the Barcelona Conference; C'omr niions, &c. I. . Attolico.
Composition of the Armements Commission.	
General Question uf International Bureaux. Hydrographie Bureau. International Institute of Commerce. Bureau International d'Assistance publique et privée.	Dr .Nitobe,.
mandates.	M. Rappard.
.eport on the composition of the Mandates Commission
Budget.	Sir H. Ames..
Preliminary Report from the Amendments Commission.	Dr. van Hamel
Report on Typhus from the Commissioner at Warsaw. Reoort from the Commission of Enquiry on Deported Womnn and Children.	Dame R.Crowdy
Report from the Ooium Traffic Advisory Committee	Dr.Hawkling Yen
Report of the Commission appointed to examine too organisation etc.of the Secretariat and International Labour Office. Report from Dr.Nansen cn Prisoners of War. Reoort on Technical Organisations of the League. Staff pppointmonts. Russian Refugees.	

Distributed to TfñdW Secret ar jbs
LEAGUE OP NATIONS General
No. 21.
nol Directors c MINUTES GE DIRECTORS1 MEETING HEID ON ER ID AY, ,8 th July, 1921.
Present
Deputy Secretary«Gene: Mr » C olban.
Signor Attolico. Profosser Rappard-' Dams Rachel Crowdy.
.1.
Drl
Hri
Mr;
Dr.
Dr.
Mr
Mr ;
ïytr.»
Steeginan. Cummings, Bioler; Huds on. Yen.
Abraham: Walters,
)
P,J. Baker)
(Secretar ios
)
(1)	THE INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE.
—'   ?  ----------■—~--------- -- . . ...
Mo MONNET announced that Prance had completed the ratification of the International Court of Justice, He suggested that the Information Section should make greater efforts to secure publicity for the ratifications of the Court as they come in, and
•	j
e spa daily for ratifications by the Great Powers,. He also suggest« ed that the ratification of Prance might serve as ah excuse for some British member of the Secretariat to call Hr. Fisher^ attention to the urgent importance of ratification by Great Britain and the Dominions.
(2)	AALAND ISLANDS.
—...	— .. r r .1 I
M. MONNET announced, that the Swedes have proposed that all the interested States should be invited to take part in the Conference which is to draw up the Convention for the neutralisation of the Aaland Islands.
States
They ooneider as interested the following
2 o
Great Britain.
France.
Italy*’
Sweden,
Finlandi Ion marl.
Germany.
Without committing the Secretariat with regard to the Swedish proposals, the Politioal Section has written to Finland and to the signatories of the 1856 Convention on the subject, namely-j Great Britain and France, enquiring their views on the matter.
(3)	RUSSIAN REFUGEES.
M. SLAVIK, who is dealing with this question, had pro« posed that the Intergovernmental C onfere nee a-* should meet at Prague.
t
M. MONNET announced that he had come to the conolu3don, after studying the matter with M. Slavik, that the Conference should he held in Geneva, and that it should he hold as long before the Assembly as possible. He was also of the opinion that the appointment of a High Commissioner to take the matter up was an urgent necessity*
(4)	MANDATES.
PROFESSOR RAPPARL announced that II, Catastini had been appointed as a Member of the Mandates Section. He further announced that he had proposed to the Secretary-General that the Permanent Mandates Commission should he summoned to meet at the beginning of October, at whioh time all it3 members would be in Europe and within 48 hours journey at the most from Geneva.
PROFESSOR RAPPARB also expressed dorubts as t o whether the Allied Powers would in fact secure the necessary agreement with the United States to enable the A. and B. Mandates to be defined before the meeting of the Assembly. He, therefore, urged
3
members of the Secretariat with influence in London and Paris to oress the importance of the matter upon their Governments.
Mo MOUSED in reply said that he was afraid that we could not expect to have the Mandates defined before the Assembly The United States were in a very strong position for preventing us from taking action. The ground of their opposition was e feeling of suspicion based on the belief that the Mandates were distributed unfairly. He believed that this opposition oould only be removed by a new Conference of the Principal Allied and Associated Powers in which the whole question of the allocation of Mandates should be discussed and their repartition on a new Toasis agreed to.
DR. HUDSON thought that American opposition could bo removed if an agreement satisfactory to them could be secured with regard to the Island of Yap and equal economic opportunities in Mesopotamia. He thought such an agreement might easily result from tho Washington Conference.
îl. MONNET said that he did not in any case see what further action the Principal Allied Powers could take in tho matter. Both Prance and Great Britain have reopened conversations with the United States on the matter, and we could hardly ask them to do more than that. He als© thought that unless we could get both the A. and B. Mandates defined before the Assembly, it would be better to leave the whole subject alone.
With this last point PROFESSOR RAPPARD did not agree.
He thought it was of the greatest importance in any case to get the B. .Mandates defined at the earliest possible date.
(5)	DISARM 1AMBIIT.
SIGNOR ATTOLICÛ read a letter which he had dispatched to M. Viviani, setting forth the view that the calling of the Washington Conference on Disarmament by President Harding did not in any way affect the utility or the necessity of the meeting of the Temporary Armaments Commission.
4 »
ii« MONX'TET announced that M. Bourgeois had already secured M. Viviani 'a agreement to the view held by Signer Attolioo.
PROFESSOR RAPPARD expressed the opinion that the calling of the Washington Conference with all the publicity that would be attached to it would necessarily react unfavourably both on the work of the Temporary Armaments Conmission and on the posit Jon of the League in public opinion*
Itr. COL BAR did not agree, and took thevtAaw that if President Harding had not called the VJawhington Conference, the League would have been compelled, later on to invite the very Powers v/hom he had summoned to hold such a Conference among themselves. In his view, effective disarmament could only be carried out by such regional Conferences as the Washington Conference would in fact prove to be, and he thought that later on we should have to oummon a Balkan Conference, an- East European Conference, and other similar Conferences, in order to secure the effective application of th© principles which the Temporary Armaments Coianission might agree to.
SI Gil OR ATTOLIOO agreed in general Tilth what Mr.
Colban bad said, but he thought there was a danger that the Temporary Armaments Commission might wish to wait for the results of the Washington Conference before they took any further action. Ho thought this would be unf art unate tf or the Temporary Armaments Commission mi^ot very usefully immediately carry on the study of the general princ iples of reduction of armaments and	for example, endeavour to determine whether budgets
i	*
or man-power were the better basis for the limitation or reduo-tion of armaments*
MR. FALTERS expressed his very strong opinion that all the meetings of the Temporary Armaments Commission should bo held in the presence of the Press, including, if possible,
5,
the first meeting at which Mo Viviani would nr.he his statement
Armament s
with regard to the relations "between the temporary/Comm is sion and the Washington Conference» He considered this to "be of extreme importance, as M„ Viviani rs statement should get the very greatest publicity,, If the Press were allowed in from the beginning, their attitude would be friendly: if they were excluded, they would be hostile. He also believed that the presence of the Press would produce a beneficial effect on the work of the Commission.
M» MOffilET, in summarising the discussion, said that there seemed to be general agreement that before effective disarmament could be carried out, a series of political regional Conference^3such as the "Washington Conference, would be required, but that in the meantime and in order to enable the w ark of these Conferences to be effective, the technical study of the general principles of disarmament, on which these regional Conferences would later have to work, was required, With regard to publicity, ho could not agree that it would be wise to have the first meeting of the Commission in public. The Commission might be a very ineffective body, and allowing the journalists to be present might produce the most disastrous results. He thought that no decision could be taken as to the policy which we should press on the Commission until we had soen the Commission at work» In any case it was a matter which would have to lie decided by the Commission itself, presumably at its first meeting.
LEAGUE OF HATIOHS.
No. 22
MINUTES OP THE DIRECTORSr MEETING.
Held on Wednesday, August 3rd, 1921, at 3,30. p.m.
Present;
So cre-tapy«General. Gemma Anzilotti.
? Attolioo
a-— 'i -<■' oj.X /!U1,
M .", Iri eler. l,vr..cril christ.
Dr„ Hudson.
Lrc Yen.
Mr. MoKinnon Wood.
Mr. Baker (Secretary).
(l)	SUPREME COUNCIL.
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL reported that as a result of his visit to England, he had oome to the conclusion that the opinion of a number of influential people who held that the Supreme Council was a "better instrument for international peaoe than fclie Council of the league, had been very sensibly changed. The unhappy difference of opinion between Prance and Great Britain on the subjeot of Upper Silesia had shewn them that as no Power was under any formal obligatioife to attend meetings of the Supreme Oounoil, it was possiblo for any one of the Powers represented at it to prevent its meeting altogether. This had led then to reflect nn the advantages of the more definite rules of the Council of the League.
(2\ HIGH COMMISSIONER POR RUSSION REFUGEES.
No progrès.1: hsE.
V r:
4
'of even ce to the
appointment
-,2-
appointment of a High Commissioner, as we were still waiting for a reply from an authoritative American source as to whether it would he possible to secure an American Commissioner or not.
4
(3) AGENDA FOB THE NEXT COUNCIL LPTFrPTTjq,
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL enquired whether any Directors had any items which they wished to place on the agenda of the next Council Meeting. He doubted whether there was enough work to justify calling the Council Meeting before September 3rd.
It appeared, after discussion, that there would be a number of small questions concerning Transit, the Saar, Danzig, the Contribution pf Salvador, the Interim Report of the Blockade Commission, the Vilna dispute, etc. It was, therefore, agreed that it would be better to leave the date for the meeting of the Counoil for September 1st, and that a circular note should bo sent round to the Sections asking them to consider at once atexxxsecwhat items would be ready for discussion Ly the Council on that date.
(4=) ASSEMBLY COMMITTEES.
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL said that in his view it
would be wiser to retain the same six Committees into
/	v
which the Assembly was divided at its last meeting. It was, therefore, necessary that the subjects on the agenda for the Assembly should be distributed in the near future among the six Committees.
It was agreed that a circular should be sent round to the Directors to ask them to prepare their views as to whioh Committees should deal with the different items •n the agenda.
3-
(5)	THE ASSEMBLY JOURNAL.
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL said, that it seemed, to him highly desirable that there should be an Assembly Hournal at the sooend meeting as at the last meeting.
SIGNOR ATTOLIOO agreed with this viwtr, but he aaid that, in his opinion, it would be better for the Journal net to include any resumes of the speeches made in the Assembly debates* Such resumes only caused trouble among the speakers themselves and added immensely to the cost of the Journal.. He suggested that the Journal should consist merely of the Resolutions agreed t@ by the Assembly, amendments to these Resolutions, agenda for the following day, ooustitution of the Committees, etc.
MR. PALIHR put forward tho view that the disadvantages of a resume of speeohes were greatly outweighed by the advantages. There was no doubt that at the last meeting of the Assembly the Journal enabled Members of the Assembly to get the atmosphere of the previous dayrs d'ebates. It oertainly put a great deal of responsibility on the editor of the Journal, but on the other hand it w/ks important to remember that only the Journal resume ^)f speeohes was read "by the Press and by the general jjablio. Neither the Press nor the publio read the Verbatim Reports
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL agreed that it had been greatly appreciated last year, and that there was a real demand by the Press and by the general publio for something of the sort.
OOMM. ANZILOTTl thought that it would in practice prove exceedingly difficult to divide the Resolutions
and
4-
and the amendments from the actual discussion. Very often the discussion was the only thing of value, and the resolutions themselves were of no importance.
M. MANTOUX explained the system of the "Analytique" reports in the French Chamber. These reports were very much the same as the Journal resumes, but they were given out every half hour as the debates in the Chamber proceeded. They were thus very often printed textually in the papers.
KRoPALLQH said that in his viuw it was vital to keep interest alive in the proceedings of the Assembly, and that without the resume of debates, the Journal would be exceedingly dull. He agreed that the resume could be made shorter, and that the Resolutions could be set out more clearly, so as to throw into greater relief the actual decisions of the Assembly.
It was decided to postpone a decision until next week, and in the meantime to invite M, Vigier or Mr. Palmer to prepare a memorandum on the whole matter. It wo.s agreed that the attention of the Information Section (should be drawn to the minutes of the discussion^
'C) ASSEMBLY RECORDS.
MR. GILCHRIST enquired whether the editing of the Assembly Records could not be done more quickly.
MR. PAIMER called attention to the minute which he had prepared, suggesting that the editing of the Records might be proceeded with during the meeting of the Assembly itself.
SIGNOR ATTOLICO expressed doubts as to whether
this
-5-
tkAs woiOcUjao-t prove very costly, but UR* -EAXMRB explained that, in his view, it would only involve the addition of one French and one English translator to the staff»
It was agreed that MR. P¿IiGR:S memorandum on the subject should be re-circulated and should bo discussed at the next meeting.
f7} TEE COURT OF INTERNATIONAL JUSTICE.
COMM. ANZILOTTI reported that 13 States had actually deposited their Act of Ratification of the Court Statute; that 3 others had completed their Acts of Ratification but had not yet deposited them; and that 5 others had passed the necessary Projet de Loi through their Parliaments, but had not -yet secured their fokmal signature. The total of Staten.which had thus viTtually completed ratification was 21.
After discussion it appeared that Finland, Belgium,
Spain, Portugal, Brazil and Chile had not yet ratified, and it was agreed that further steps should be tahen to induce them to do so.
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL promised to write to M. Enckell,
M* Hymans, 21. Quinones de Leon, M. Edwards, and to telegraph to M. da Cunha on the subjeot.
COMI. ANZILOTTI said that only 9 States had so far sent in their nominations of candidates for the post of judge on the Court.	These nominations had already been
given to the Press.	It was agreed to circulate to the
Sections of the Secretariat;
(a) A list of States which had sent in their nominations;
(b) A list of States which had actually or virtually ratified;
in order that members of the Secretariat should tahe	steps
LEAGUE OH NATIONS.
No.23.
Geneva,
12th August 1921.
MINUTES OF DIRECTORS' MEETING HELD ON WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 10th, 1921.
Present:-
Secretary-General. Commendatoro Anzilotti. Dr, Nitobe.
M. Comert.
II.	Mantoux.
Dr. Hawkling Yen.
Dr. Hudson»
Mr. Gilchrist.
Mr. Me Ki nno n Wo o d.
Mr. Bialer.
M. Vigior.
Mr. Walters (Secretary).
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL said that he thought tho meeting should take a decision on the point discussed lust time, viz. the desirability of keeping up a Daily Journal during tho Assembly, and, if so, whether it should include resumes of speeches made during Assembly discussions. It had boon proposed that it should bo kept but should include only actual results, decisions, resolutions, etc,, together with programmes for the following days and other actual news. Hu specially desired to know what value it was thought the Journal had, in its last year’s form, for tho Press and from other points of view.
M. COMERT thought that for the journalists in Genova, it’was not very useful, because they desired to telegraph thy same evening, and they could only get the Journal the following morning. But he thought that for Correspondents
away/
away from Genova and for Delegates, and particularly Members of Delegations here who often wore not present during the dobatos, the Verbatim Report was too long, and a summary of the speeches was what they wanted.
M. MANTOUX further pointed out that to many of tho Delegates and their staff neither English nor French was entirely familiar, and tho reading of a Verbatim Report was a laborious business.
M. COMERT said that last year criticisms had boon very few, and the Journal had, on the other hand, met with a good deal of appreciation. It was like ,TThe Times’’ report of Parliament, which everyone read rather than Hansard.
M. VIGIER said that keeping up the Journal would only require one extra man,
CORONET HIAM said that the Barcelona Conference had wi th
started/no Journal, but had found that something was necessary, if only to give notice of next day's agenda and so on, though no resumes of speeches were given.
By general agreement it was decided that the Journal should be kept up and should contain summaries of speeches, these to bo as short as possible/ It should contain conclusions actually reached by Committees, but no account of their discussions.
The following further points were settled regarding tho Assembly:
(a)	The whole agenda, including supplementary agenda and list of documents, to bo printed and circulated in a single document.
(b)	Tho handbook containing names and addresses of Delegations, etc,, should, as far as possible, bo got ready for the opening of the Assembly. This information shOTild also appear in the first numbers of the Journal.
(c)	The question whether a clerk should be placed close by the President's desk, whose business it should be to know the exact texts of Resolutions, ar.ondrents, ate*, propose^ and the exact state of the discussion at any moment, was raised hy DR. HUBS CPU
It was decided he should disouss this with Hr. Huston and Dr. Dixon.
fd) The question of the appointment of a special Recording Secretory to keep Committee minutes with the help of the regular Committoo Secretory,
A decision on this was postponed until the following week, when the nomination of Committee Secretaries will he decided.
RUSSIAN REFJ0E53.
THE SECRETARY-GENERA! said that a reply had come from Tashington making it clear that the appointment of an American would not- hare official approbation. He had accordingly telegraphed to Dr. Nansen, whose appointment the Council had shewn it would unanimously welcome. No reply had yet been received.
GERMANE NT COURT.
C? OMMENDA TORE ANSIIOTTI said that 15 ratification were now actually deposited, and 6 actually made but not yet formally deposited, viz. Bulgaria, Norway, Spain, Gre^oe,
Poland and Belgium. This left 4 still to get. Ro had been bn.formod'bhat the Parliaments of Costa Rica and Venezuela had approved the Court, and Haiti had declared that she would adopt it,
°tt nothing had boon said as to formal ratification.
i.i« Mogueira
had telegraphed that Panama would try and got tho necessary Law passed before its Congress roso, Portugal had named its candidates, but had said nothing about ratification,, Tho same was true of Chile and of Siam, As regards Finland, the Soorgtary-General had written to M. Enckell, As regards Czeoho-Slovakie,? Commendatore Anzllotti has telegraphed to M, Senes. Persia had nominated candidates, Tho Secretary-General said he would write to thoir Delegate to the Assembly. Liberia it was difficult to know how to approach, Luxembourg;
II. Comert thought that perhaps I.L Bourgeois could help, and promised to write to him,	China: it was understood that
r&tifioetion had boon delayed owing to the non-arrival of tho document. Further copies had been sent, Tho Secretary-General said ho would write to Hr, Wellington ILoo, He would also write to Viscount Ishii about Japan, II, Adatci had said some time ago that the Privy Council had agreed, and that only the Emperor's signature was required,. As regards South in or .lea in general, a report was awaited from Messrs, Noguoira and Bolin,
COLONEL SIAM mentioned the point of the postage expenses of tho League, and said that ho thought that progress was being made in the negotiations with tho Cwiss Government,
M. IvIAPTOUX mentioned that a letter of invitation was being sent to the Governments proposed by Sweden to take part in the Conferoneo on tho Aaland Islands, The suggestion was being :pudo that it should take place in Geneva, unless a majority preferred it elsowhero, and tho views of tho Governments wore being asked as to the earliest possible da to,
DP. NITOBE said that ho had Just returned from visits to
Oxford/
Oxford and to Prague. The Esperanto Congress in the latter capital was a thoroughly live affair, Throo thousand people were present iron. 30 nations, end he was ir.uch struck by the strong spirit of harmony prevailing. The french and Gorman Delegates, for instance, had fraternised completely, both, of course, conversing in Esperanto, Though not yet entirely converted, he felt that the movement was a real one and not at all to be despised. One well-known scientist had been ohargod to examine whether Esperanto could be substituted for Latin in technical terminology. The statements published that ho had ir.ado an opneing speoch and had declared thatAhe League would shortly take to Esperanto, were far from true, but those present much appreciated tho fact that the Longue was represented, and many people had said to him that the meeting served us well for propaganda for tho League as for Esperanto. Ho cnticipubed thab the question might bo again raised at tho Assembly by II. Bonos or M. Lafontaineo
DR. HUDSON referred to tho situation regarding the Federation of Central American states, Honduras, Salvador and Guatemala had ratified the Act of Union, and a Constituent Assembly was meeting either now or very shortly, although Nicaragua had not signed the Act and Costa Rica had not ratified it. Salvador, when asked to say who would represent her at the Council at which her Budget was to be discussed, had replied that she did not think it necessary to send anyone. Seeing that tho Council was to moot within five days of the Assembly, he feared this might mean that they did not intend to be represented at tho Assembly. He urged that whenever the occasion arose, the States of Central America should be encouraged to continue to work with the League. Reports of their withdrawal were doing us a good deal of harm.
JLSA GD E OE NA f IOITS.
GENEVA.
ITo. 24. Àug.23rd 1921.
MINUTES OE DIRECTORS1 MEETING HEID OU SATURDAY, AUGUST 20th, 1921.
Present:-
Secretary-Genera].. Coromendatore Anzilotti.
Lions ieur Mcnnex.
Dr. Nitobe.
M. Man to us.
Professor Rappard.
M. Comer'in Dr. Van Hamel.
Sir Herbert Ames.
Dr. Steegman.
Mr. McEinnon Wood.
M. Vigier,
Mr. Huston.
ivi « in. cl ci. vD a
Dr. Yen.
f j v» T'r o ~] 4- p -v*o ^
i'M *	~ J Secretaries.
Mr. Baker. )
fl) ORGANISATION OF THE ASSEMBLY.
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL explained of division of subjects between the sin
the general principle Commissions which he
proposed. This division was set out in a paper which he had circulated. He thought it .-ould be necessary for each Commission to have 1 Secretary, 1 Recording Secretary,
2 stenographers, and 2 interpreters. It might be possible to. arrange that the interpreters should serve on more than one Commission, if the Commissions met on alternate days, as they did last year.
It was agreed that in Sub-Committees of Commissions
1 interpreter would be enough.
(2)
(2)	SECRETARIES _0E _ . COMMASIONS.
There was considerable discussion as to whether it was necessary to secure special Recording Secretaries from outside the Secretariat.
It was agreed that if it were possible to do so, there would be great advantages in making members of the Secretariat act as Recording Secretaries. The following proposals were agreed to as regards the Secretaries
Commission I.	Secretary:	Dr. Van Hamel.
Commission II.	Secretary:	M. Haas.
Commission III.	Secretary:	Mr. Baker.
Commission IV.	Secretary:	Mr. Bieler.
Commission V.	Secretary:	Signor Attolico.
Commission VI.	Secretary:	Li. Mantoux.
Certain proposals were made as regards the Recording Secretaries ana it was decided that Secretaries should let the Secretary-General know their suggestions not later than Monday.
It was, of course, understood that Directors and others responsible for given subjects would attend the Commissions whenever the work of the Commissions made it desirable that they should.do so.
(3 ) SUPPLEMhnTARY ASSEMBLY n&EIEDA.
THE SE C EE TARY-GERERAI reported that the Polish proposal with regard to the submission of Reports to the Council was to be withdrawn from the Assembly agenda, and that the Polish Government were transmitting a letter instead of placing the matter formally on the agenda.
The
It was agreed that the proposal with regard to the amendment to the Covenant relative to the selection of members of the Secretariat, should be submitted first to Commission Ko.4, for a decision on principle, and then to Committee No. 1, if an amendment to the Covenant were required.
(4) DIRECTOR OF ClnTRAI SERVICES.
TIH SEC RE AIRY-GRIM] RAL said that he wished to appoint hr. Huston to act in this capacity at the forth-coming Assembly.
MR. HUSTON said that he hoped the Recoding Secretaries would be a ppointed at a very early date, in order that he might have a meeting with them not later than the middle of next week.
f5) DATA 0? TIE ASSEMBLY.
THE SECRSTARY-GZIEIRAL raised the question as to whether the beginning of September was really the best date for the meeting of the Assembly. He suggested that Directors should endeavour to find out at what times of the year their various national Parliaments are in session. He had been wondering whether October "ould not be a better time.
DR. VAN TTALTAI: replied that Committee Ho. 1 had considered this point with great care at the assembly last year, and had, on the grounds which the Secretary-General had put forward, decided that September was the best time. October was difficult because tne Drench parliament is normally in session.
It was, however, agreed that it might be possible to postpone the date of the Meeting from the beginning to the middle H September.
6)	HEP03T 03 TIE: COM-IISSIOII 0? ZHIUIEY. •
THE SECRETARY-GEIIE3A1 said he would like the views of Erectors as to the attitude which the Secretariat should take up qth regard to the report of the Commission of Enquiry. His own •lew was that, since the report was, on the whole, very favourable ;o the Secretariat, we should not put in to the Assembly any document m the matter, as the labour Office intended to do, but that if v/e :ere pressed by the Assembly we should be ready to state our views in any point. His personal inclination was to agree with all the •ecommendstions of the report, subject to three reservations:
(1)	That (as the Commission of Enquiry themselves stipulated) lone of their recommendations should apply to the present members if the Secretariat.
(2)	That it was not possible to amalgamate Sections or to reduce ;he number of Directors , as proposed by the Commission of Enquiry.
(3)	That we should ask the Assembly to appoint a special
xpert Committee, with special technical knov/ledge , to consider the rganisation of the library.
THE SECRETARY-GE33ERA1 said that, although he thought it ndesirable to circulate an Assembly Document, we should, nevertheless, ave a note ready on the points in the report which we wished ommittee Ho. 4 to discuss.
SI3 HE3BE3T ALES thought it very important that the various oints raised in the report should be discussed, and if it were ecessary to this end we should circulate a note. The greatest ang,s-r was the unconsidored adoption of the whole ox the report by ,°4mittee Ho. 4.
K. liAETOTJA said that he had already written some comments n the report, which he hoped to circulate to his colleagues, and he SEEKS TAB Y- GEITERAl invited the other Directors to do the same.
PROESSSOR RAPTARD put forward tîie vie?/ that the organisation of the Secretariat is the direct and sole responsibility of the Secretary-General, and that no other member of the Secretariat was ia a position to argue in favour of the organisation as it existed.
DR. VAIi HAMEL agreed with this view, and urged that it was important that the Secretary-General should maintain his freedom and authority in the matter and should not allow the view to gain currency that in his organisation he was dependent either on the Council or on the Assembly. To this end he thought it might be useful for the Secretary-General to circulate a note.
M. MOMIET said that he thought we could more advantageously got the point of vie?/ expressed by Dr. Yan Hamel laid before Committee Ho. 4 by the member of the Commission of Enquiry. This mould be a far more effective way of maintaining our dignity and of having views favourable to the Secretariat put before the Committee, than circulating a document ourselves. The Maskers bf the Commission no doubt, would be quite willing to lay emphasis
fn the advisability of maintaining the Secretary-General's authority n matters of organisation.
SIR HERBERT AMES suggested that perhaps the best plan ?i'3uld be to get the Assembly to recommend the report for the Secretary-General's consideration, asking him to put into effect
Euch of its recommendations as he thought right and to explain t the next meeting of the Assembly why he had not found it ossible to adopt the rest.
THE SECRETARY-GEIERAL said he did not agree with this proposal. In his view it was true that he was responsible for J:le Organisation. But on the other hand it is the Assembly which
b
votes the money. The organisation depends on the funds allotted to the Secretary-General, and, therefore, the Assembly has the function of control. He also preferred that the Assembly should take responsibility for saying which of the Commission of Enquiry's proposals they viewed with favour. He would not like all the responsibility for accepting or rejecting the recommendations of the report to be left to him by the Assembly.
SIR HERBERT ARES proposed that the Secretary-General might perhaps put forward a document explaining which of the recommendations made by the Commission of Enquiry he thought oould be put into effect at once, and which he thought could not.
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL agreed that it was desirable the Committee should know his views on the matter, but he preferred to do it personally and verbally, rather than by circulating a document. Generally speaking except for the three reservations mentioned above, he was prepared to accept the whole of the report.
MR COLBA1T said that as regards procedure he agreed with the Secretary-General. In his view there was no question as to the procedure which ought to be followed, The Council at its last meeting referred the report of the Commission to the Assembly for its consideration. There is, therefore, no ground on which the Secretariat could put forward a document containing comments on a
Blatter already considered and decided by the Council. As regards
/
the substance of the Report he had one very important question to
/'
raise, besides the three mentioned by the Secretary—General.
(? S TOER SILESIA.
The SECRETARY-GENERAL reported that Monsieur oUinones de Leon ha& agreed to aot as Rapporteur and to present a report
summarising the difficulties of the question, as set out in the dossier of the Supreme Council, nothing had yet been decided as to the procedure or as to the setting up of a Commission of Enquiry* A letter from Viscount Ishii, in reply to LI. Briand’s letter, vas to be published in Saturday's papers containing the following points:
(1)	That the Council of the League rely on the- great Powers to continue to maintain peace in Upper Silesia.
(2)	That the Council of the League trusts that the Prime Linisters of the Principal Powers interested will find it possible to refrain from making speeches on the matter until the League
has dealt with it.
(3)	That if these conditions were complied with, the Council hope that they will be able to secure a unanimous report.
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL added that the press were exceedingly anxious to secure information on the procedure which was to be followed by the League, and that this made the necessity for discretion on the part of members of the Secretariat all the greater.
MR. COLLAR said he hoped that the League would be able to deal with the matter quickly. He had heard from the Polish Foreign Minister in Earsaw that every day increases the great danger of the situation.
TEE SECRETARY-GENERAL replied that he hoped the Council would achieve a definite result by October 15th at latest, but that ibis depends on the procedure which is followed. 8
(8) OTHER MATTERS.
PROFESSOR RAPPAED reported that the Spaniard who had been invited to be a member of the Permanent Mandates Commission had
!s office a:	nd his o\	::n.
■lid returned	to him.	
Government	are not	anxious
••ccepteol the invitation, tut that his letter of acceptance had ,een lost between Commondutore Ansilotti'
.vould be glad if it could He aiso announced the :ither to secure for their own Dolegation the Presidency of the ;bOei-ibly or n.cn o o r s h i p Ox the Counci.Le
T-ith reward to the postal l rrangements , ho reported that ic had found very good will in the matter in political elides n Borne, but that the matter had unfortunately been dealt with hrough the v:i
g channel. He	SHya.0v G oed	that b
ee about it as	soon as po	ssible
9) AIIOGaHOho PO GOhUISSIOUS.
MH. MCHINlJOif WOOD enquired whether the members of the
•iiel VO n
en	invited to	attend the	Assembly	should
le	they are w	siting for	the ass cm	bly tc
in	which they	arc intore	sted.	
4-1 - r-. 4- 4 4 - ■ -o q U -LU i':Uü		quite fair	tixat tney	sheuld
_L 0	■fU • -, - vixw	genuinely v;	aiting in	Genova
_ov:anc os
or the Assembly to take action. With regard to the rate of Ilowances •.••hieh should be made to various Commissions , Li. ILJL3 ^pressed the view that it was important that no distinctions hould be made bet •-•ceil different Commissioners, except on definite ni objective grounds, c.g. between Temporary and Permanent oamissions.
ÏEE ¿3033 TA3 Y-Œ2E3RAL said that he considered that nis was a matter for Assembly Committee	i/O dear . 11 n ana
ettle
2 o) MjlL- Da J5 c •
THT' 3F CHE?A21i-GENERAL rex h .d done its best to begin negoti
..aerican Government, and that the t) deal with the matter at all. Kx_e a declaration on the matter
orl	—i v-A.	w .'la u k/'	Dri	ti	sh G	0 VO	rnment
-1 lj .»_	ons	on Hants	. tes	r	1th	the	
S t	a to	Dope rI	it	pi	ati^	re	fus id
the	Pv J_e—.	itish IF	. a	ti	Oil V	oul	CL
at	the	Ass orabl y					
It was agreed that another Directors’ ¡¡eld on Wednesday next, Angust 24th, and that anong other things, questions of "etiquette",
Meeting should bo it should discuss,
on which Dr. Van Hamel
JT 0 o 25
miitutrs m te.j directors * kmjtiig es-b ou
SATURDAY £7th ,ùb>U3T, 1921.
PROSENT :-
3.XRaTaRY-Gj2LRA1 MONSIEUR MONÏÏ.JT
DH.	NIT 0 BN	
SIR	i HjTRIIGRT MlvOS	
PRO	»Pilot OR ATT OLIO	0
Ivl.	COLBAN	
M.	COMNRT	
DR.	VAN HAMEL	
M.	MANTOUA	
M.	RAPPnPJ)	
MR.	MeHI NIT ON W OOD	
MR.	V.ALT US	(:
(Secretary).
THO SOORTHARY-SDNORAL said that he thought Dr. Van Hamel's memoranda on the creation of a "service du protocole" ought to be considered without delay.
The discussion, in which all those present took part, led to a full agreement as to the points to be accepted, modified or rejected in Dr. Van Hamel1s proposals. These will be embodied in a memorandum by the Secretary-General. The discussion centred round: -
a)	The functions to be carried out.
b)	Method of tackling them.
c)	Name of the service to be created.
As regards (c) it was pointed out that the phrase "service du protocole" had certain very distinct meanings in diplomatic usage, and it was agreed that it would be better to avoid it.
As regards (a) and (b) it was decided that the legal Section should be charged to give the necessary assistance to sections and to the Secretary-General in matters concerned with the legalisation of signatures, ratifications etc. made under the auspices of the Secretariat, drawing up of protocols relative thereto, proper keeping of Treaties, etc. whose originals arc in the hands of the Secretariat.
It was made clear that the initiative of action should always remain with the section concerned ,aid that o.g0 letters announcing to other parties the fact that one party had deposited a ratification should he signed either by the Secretary—General or by the Head of the Section concerned, sibling on his behalf.
It was further agreed that Questions of a purely formal
nature e.g. Questions of precedence should be left entirely untouched by the Secretariat. The duty of giving assistance to Delegates in the matter of hotel questions, Questions of douane and the like, in so far as this fell to the Secretariat, must come within the sphere of the Dst&blishiient Officer. On the other hand, it was agreed that the secretariat ought to be ready to do more towards helping delegations from Members of the
League not regularly present at the Council than had been the case up to now. To provide for this was the duty of the Director of the section dealing with the Question which called for the presence at the Council of special Delegations; in such a case the Director would naturally in the first place
loo£ in his own section for someone who knew the question and could therefore help the Delegation concerned in the most effective way. Failing such a person it was the duty of the Director concerned to find someone else. In doing so he could consult the Secretary-General1s office or anybody else.
In regard to the Assembly it was agreed: - to find a member of the Secretariat particularly skilled in questions of diplomatic usage and to ask him to make a certain study of the various Assembly Delegations from this point of view. Thereafter, any member of the Secretariat desiring to do so could ask
hiß advice, but every precaution should be taken to avoid giving to Delegatee or anyone outside the Secretariat the idea that the Secretariat or any Member of it was prepared to offer advioe on such points; thus, for instance, Delegates must in no way bo referred to him.
It was further proposed that somebody should be nominated to receive and deal with complaints from Delegates on various points. Here again the complaint should only be passed on in the Secretariat and outsiders should never be referred to the member in question. It was pointed out that such complaints would mostly concern distribution of documents, sitting accommodation and the like, and as these Questions are in Mr. Huston1s charge, the official to be nominated ought to be someone under his instructions.
The 3ecretary-3-eneral referred briefly to Professor lini's note on the supplying by the League of experts and advisers, particularly in financial questions, to countries who were short of experts themselves. He thought in such a case the League could well accept the request and make the appointment on the advice of its technical Committees. The expert appointed might or might not be attached to the Secretariat.
In any case hw wq-uld have the benefit of its help and of the help and advice of the technical Committee. Many countries might prefer from a point of view of "amour propre" to ask such help from the League than from any Government, and he thought that without entering into details the meeting could agree tT*»t in principle such rocmest would be welcomed and treated with eve ry s ymp at hy.
-4-
The SECRETARY GMiKAL asked that in view of the difficulties in which, the Translation Section was being planed by the fact of being acted to deal with long documents neither in french nor in English, any section sending down such documents should indicate whether a surmary translation -would not suffice*
Mr* C0LBA1T remarked that one of the special difficulties ai-oce out of the publication of Treaties registered with the Secretariat*
hr. VAN ETHEL pointed out that this question would be dj scussod at the Assembly*
The SECRETARY GEEEEAL and Hr, COLB-.1T asked, that sections which found it necessary to have more than two assistart-Cecretaries and Stenographers would forviard their reasons without delay. It was a point which was ff.ure to bo scrutinised by the Assembly and though reasonable exceptions to the rule of two per soction might be allowed, oach one must be well accounted for*
M* COMEET pointed out the special difficulties of the Information Section which he had already set forth in a memorandum to Mr* Co lb on.
Sir Herbert AMES aslod whether it would be arran cd that Committees 2 and 5 of the Assembly should meet on different days.
The SECPJYDAEY GEHEPAL hoped tint Committees 1, 2 and 3 would meet on alternate days with Committees 4, 5 and 6,
Sir Herbert AluES asked that: 1) when Commissions were dealing with any question affecting the budget he should be informed without delay; 2] that any section which had any items to propose for the sup lanentary budget wmld at once let him Iqiov/*
meeting
The SECRETARY GEHGEAL referred to the Council and said that if the question, of Upper Silesia did not continue after August 29th, the Council would go straight ahead with its ordinary business*
Attendance Booh. As regards the attendance books he thought they should be filled. In only by those who could claim extra pay for overtime work, and that they should enter not only the time of arrival and departure, but also tire time they hay® taken for lunch a
Confidential
.No, 26.
f-nlCTC DCS NATIONS,
istribu; Vd to Under-Secretaries
~--	“	'	1	-	t
■¿neraX~and UirëbfoTs.
Geneva.	LCiGtB 0? NATIONS
27th October, 1921.
Minutes of a Tireot ors * Me g tin g heId on we'd ne ici ay. OcTober 27th, 1~9STT
Present: The Secretary-General Commendatore Anzilotti Sir Herbert .âmes Dr. Van Hamel Prof. Attolico LI* Rappard Capt. Gilchrist Mr. ilcHinnon wood Prof. Halecki Dr = Rajehmann M, Vi1lari K. Vigier
Hr. Baker ) Secretaries. Mr. Walters.)
- The Secretary-General said that we had no further informa-
tion than v/as in the papers regarding the present situation as to the acceptance of the Silesian decision. Some of the
Directors might have seen the letter from M. Briand as President of the Supseme Council to Viscount Ishii, on the
subject, which was now being prepared for circulation to the Council. In this letter the Council was asked to nominate 3
persons
(1)	A- Chairman to preside over the negotiations between Germany and Poland, to give a final decision on questions as to which the two could not agree, also to decide the place of meeting.
(2)	A President of the Mixed Commission of three Silesian Poles and three Silesian Germans.
(3)	The Prqsident of the Arbitral Court for private litigation He further expressed the hope that the Council would continue
to co-operate with the Supreme Council in the matter.
There was one point tin connection with the Milesian decision to which he thought he would specially advert. The Council was frequently criticised by people who thought that it had had a free hand to decide that the whole of Upper Silesia could "be given to either party if it sc wished« As a matter of fact the Council had no choice under the terms of the Treaty, hy which it was specifically bound to make a partition. It was therefore important to make critics understand that whether the partition decided on were good or bad, some partition had to take place.
The Aaland Islands Convention had been signed by all parties, it now awaited the Council’s acceptance of the functions which it laid upon it and would thereafter be ratified. Commendatore Anzilotti said that it would be published tjzie next day.
is regards Poland andlithuania, there was nothing to report, Neither party had accepted the Council's recommendation.
The military Commission had returned but was tc be liquidated four months from date of the Council's decision, after which, in his view, under the $erms of the Covenant the matter passed out of the competence of the League.
Albania continued £o make frequent appeals to the League. Unfortunately two out of the three persons invited to serve on the Commission, had refused. Two names, one a f inn and one a Norwegian, weie now bwfore the Council.
The Health Committee had just finished its meeting; it seemed to have made good progress and to be* able to co-operate closely with the Office Internationa] .
The Commission of Control was now complete except that K. Dusek could not serve, and had proposed x„ Osusky
3
to tako his pi ae o. fhis name li et o o aa. submitted to the president o i' the Council. It was hoped th.rb the Committee would rjoet on the 25th i;ov ember. It \ ould have a good cany points to consider re aedina; the btauute of the Personnel, and still more regarding new contracts es to which tiie Assembly in many cases had failed to give a clear guiding lino; for example, the Assembly had in no
way indicated the rats at which exchange should be calculated
\
for new contracts. In sir.h a question it was probably best tb take the opinion of the Commission of Control, although of course the secretariat ought to have a proposal to submit to them. It v/as therefore very desirable that °y Govenbor 25th we should be able to lay before the	\
Commission a clear statement of fthø difficulties on which we required their advice. It followed that both the otaff Committee and the Committee of five to be elected by the Secretariat would be required to spend a great deal of tiros on the Statute between now ard liovember 21st.
Sir Herbert ones said that he and . r. Coiban on his return would draw up a tentative agenda for the Commission of Control, ahd this would be circulated to the Directors.
g'	Ihe Secretary-Cereral said Hat he wished to bring
up a sain the question of the Official Journal., a previous discussion on which had been postponed because it seemed clear that present arrangements must continue until yha e^d of 1921. He cuesticned whether, new that the Council proems verbaux were ready for publication so soon l after the lmciing, we cru git to continue to publish ¿Council deports and .desolutions in both publications, and
i
whether the Journal was worth keeping up as a separata series. II.Yigier thoijght that one series only would
4
do, tut that soma publication must tahq placq t)q^w|Qn the Council Meetings, and that the special supplement containing -the assembly and Council Resolutions only, should be kept up.
Ift was decided: -
fl) that in future the Official Journal should contain the Minutes of Council Meetings ard hat it should be published in the format of the Council Canutes}
(2)	that special numbers should be put out immediately for each Council Meeting containing Resolutions only; also in the same format.
(3)	that the price to paying subscribers should be based on the cost of production;
(4)	that a notice shotild be prepared for despatch to subscribers, to inform them of this decision*
Commendatoro Anzilotti said that the first Meeting of the Court would probably take place in the first part of January, The Secretary-Cone ml remarked that we must, if possible, avoid a dash between it and the Council Meeting of Jamary 12th. He suggested January 20th.
M.Rappard said that the Minutes of the Permanent
— * ---- i
Mandates Commission would be circulated, therefore he would not say anything about the Meeting now. There was one small point which he wished to mention, because he understood that the Members of other Commissions had also rsisec it. ‘ This was the desirability of printing notepaper with the heading "Permanent Mandates Commission of the League of Rations.'1 It was agreed 'that it would be a good thing to have such notepaper, the expense being met out of the Budget of the organisation cf section concerned.
5
Dr. Steegman reported on Uie ice ot in g of the Office Informational d1 Hygiene held recently in Paris and on the meeting of the Health Committee of t he League which followed.
He reported that at the meeting of the Office International the Health Organisation scheme adopted by the assembly was
\
received with general satisfaction. The representatives, with the exception of the Portuguese Delegate, who had opposod the scheme at the last meeting no longer did so. The United States representative did not speak on the subject at ai 1.
At the meeting of the health Committee of the League, which lasted three days, the discussions turned mainly on the technical work cf the Committee and on the rol-ation between the Healtn Committee and the Office International. The Committee had heard with the greatest interest the report EEde by Dr.
Norman white and Dr. Hajoilman on their journey to Moscow* They had decided that a report should be drawn up by Dr. Rajchman and that the latter should also Invite a Russian Professor with whom he had dealt in Moscow to make a report on the present position as regards epidemics in Russia. The ■.Committee proposed to begin their programme of scientific work with an attempt to bring about a standardisation of sera,. Dr. Steegman also reported that the Japanese Government attached æo much importance to the work of the Health Committee that they had given instructions to the Japanese member that he was to remain on permanently in Lurope in order to take part in the Committee's work,instead of returning to Japan as he had \ previously planned to do.
i
cur Herbert nmes as ted the Secretary-General whether v — --» t ■ 1 T 11 * '
■
he did not think it would be useful if Directors were i ill owe 4, to correct mis-statements of fact which appeared in the public press concerning the work for which they were	,
responsible, by means of signed letters.
6
After some discussion the Secretary-General said tint he thought there was no objection to the proposal made by Sir Herbert nnes so long as the letters were confined strictly to matters of fact. It would be sn error in tactics to answer any articles published -with malicious intent.
Professor Halecki reported that the decision on Upper Silesia had received a very warm welcome in oil political circles in Poland and that there was there at tide present moment a strong movement cf opinion in favour of the League.
Ho reported on the work: of the 3oeiological Congress at 1'urin. He further enquired whether the oecrctary-General thought it would be wise to prepare a questionnaire to be circulated to the members of the Commission on the Organisation of Intellectual work as soon as the members had been appointed.
The Secretary-General replied that he thought this was a matter which required careful consideration. It might be better to leave the Comraission to work out its own plan of action. In any case it could be left over for decision until Dr. Nitobe’s return.
Mr. McKinnon Hood reported that the Pinane il Subcommittee of tin Financial commission was now at Danzig enquiring into the economic and financial condition of the Free City.
LEAGUE OT NATIONS
r
(.
piotributod to Under Secretaries General and Direotors®
No® 27.
Goneva,
4 th. November, 1921«
MINUTES OP THE DIRECTORS1 MEETING TTTCT.T) ON WEDNESDAY
NOVEMBER End. 1921.
PRESENT:
Secretary General Mo Monnet
Oommen&atoro Anzilotti,
Dr. Nitobo
Sir Herbert Ames
Professor Attolioo
M, Comert
Ir, Yan Hamel
Mo Mantoux
M. Rappard
Mr. Gilchrist
Mr. Mo Kinnon Wood
Mr. Walters (Secretary)
The Secretary General said that not much had happened since the last meeting. The three members sf the Albanian Commission had been finally appointed and it was hoped they oould start for Albania in the middle of the month. The position there seemed bad. The Conference of Ambassadors had still not settled the frontiers and the Serbs appeared to be making attacks. It seemed therefore that the sooner the Commission could reach the ground the better.
We had not yet heard who would be the German negotiators on Silesian affairs. The Poles had appointed Mr. Plucinski, but he understood that this appointment wus\ being changed. We had not heard officially.
ft
-2-
The Commission of Control would meet on
November 25 th.
For the present it seemed that Washington would hold the stag© and that things here might be comparatively quiet.
In reply to a question from M. Rappard the Secretary General said that no communication had been mado to the Leaguo by any of the Governments concerned regarding recent events in Hungary,
M, Rappard said that M. Orta could not go to Paris and London with the sub-Committee appointed at the request of the Council. He had given the opinion that it was not necessary to appoint a third Membor a3 Mr. Ormsby-Gore would Join the sub-Committee in London, M. Beau in Paris and M. Orta in Brussels, so that there would always bo three Members, though not the same three. The Secretary General said that this was evidently not exactly what the Council intended, but he thought that no ebjeotion would be made.
M. Rappard said that he had laid before the Secretary General a plan for the appointment of a small Committee to receive complaints about over charges eto. from Members of the Secretariat and pass on those it considers Justified, to the official appointed by the Geneva Government to deal with such oomplainta. The Committee would also keep a dossier which if necessary could be produced to the Assembly next year.
The Secretary General 3aid that he had not yet received the proposal, but he thought at first sight that it was perhaps better to revive the sub-Committee of the Staff Association
t
-3~
which at the beginning of the year had, he understood, been
nominated for just this purpose and that official action should
only be taken if it seemed that the Geneva Government was not
paying proper attention to unofficial complaints« This view
was generally agreed to. In the coarse of the discussion
emphasis was laid on the importance of keeping clear the
distinction between over-charges by individuals and general
high cost of living at Geneva» It might well happen that
complaints about overcharges would be few, but this would net- in wa§r
any/imply that the cost of living was not exceedingly high»
Sir Herbert Ames asked the Secretary General if the Staff Association might have the use of certain downstairs rooms on the same terms as last year. The Secretary General said he full;/ agreed.
Dr. Van Hamel said that the unrelieved hostility of the German Press about Upper Silesia made him wonder whether some action could not have been taken in the past, and could not be taken, in the future to get some sort of
influence with that press and to be able to publish the league
/
point of view when necessary*''
In the past the question of Eupen and Mainedy had produced the same phenomenon of violent and ignorant attacks on the League. German opinion was in itself of great importance, and it had very great effect in Europe generally. Gould we consider the setting up of a Bureau in Berlin, similar to that established in Rome?
Mo Comert said that it was difficult to influence the German Press, and in' the question of Upper Silesia it v/as impossible. He had talked with many German Journalists hero, but found that even though they expressed agreement with
-4-
the views of the League their articles took exactly the opposite point cf view«
In general we were doing what we could to get into touch with the German press, and we were in close touch with the German League of Nations Union. Monsieur Rap par d said there was, he thought, the possibility of much being done. Many of our critics in Germany were only so because they did not know the facts.
Monsieur Mantoux said that he had a long talk vrith the Correspondent cf the Yossische Seitung about Silesia and the article which resulted from it was a helpful one»
mho Secretary General said that as regards Upper Silesia, he was convinced we could have never done anything® It was a party question in Germany and the Journalists wrote what the public wanted. Nor did he think the present moment opportune for making a special effort to influence German opinion, but when their present mood was calmed, as he felt sure would happen soon, we ought to consider again what could be dono. The question was very important, but we must find the best moment and the best method.
Monsieur Comert added that the Italian office had been most useful, and that there had certainly been 3igns of a great change in Italian opinion during the last six months»
Such a change in German opinion would be immensely valuable, but the position was not so easy. Italy was a Member of the leaguo and the Italian Government had been aware of all the action we have taken, whereas we could .not feel at all sure that the German Government would favour the setting up of a League of Nations
Bureau in Berlin
»5-
Mr. Gilchrist said that the Danzig-Poland Convention had "been signed in Warsaw on October 23rd0 It contained between 200 and 300 articles.
It seemed that relations between Danzig and Poland were steadily improving.
NOIB BY THE SECRETARY :
Edo minutes of this meeting fail to show a point whioh was» I think, perfectly clear in the discussion initiated by Sir Herbert Ames regarding the publication of signed corrections of bona fide mis-statements in the press, viz*, that action to this effect should be only in agreement with the Information Section.
IS&GOS , OF RA TIONS.
M attributed to	No. 20,
Xc&- -fr'is ere tar ies Genera 1
~aoTDi?ectois „	Geneva }
11th Bov ember 1921. MINUTES OF DIRECTORS1 MEETING held
on IS e ones dav , Beventvr Sthj_ at 3-30 p-.m,
Present
The Sectetory-General
Commendatore Ansilotti
M„ Comert
Professor Attolico
Professor Rappard
Mr o G o Than
Mr«, Van Hamel
Dr, Rajchman
Mr , McXinn on W oo d.
Secretary:- Mr. Bieler.
I.
The Secretary-General announced that the British government had sent him on Tuesday a telegram asking him tc summon an urgent meeting of the Council to consider the Serbian incursions into Albania,
M, Hymans bad agreed to the Council meeting being held on the 10th of November. He thought it probable that there would be some criticism about the delay in summoning the meeting To this he thought the reply was as follows:- First, it was not certain that the frontiers had yet been communicated to the interested parties; second, it was most important that Ministers from Belgrade and Tirana should come to the meeting of the Council with full powers to act and engage their governments
tiiird, it was of importance to allow time for the pressure of the reasonable opinion of the world to bear on the Serbian Government: fourth, a 'warning telegram had. immediately been despatched to the Members of the Council and to the interested parties, and this would in itself exercise immediate pressure on them*
The Secretary-General thought it was most important that criticism on this point should be answered on the above lines.
The meeting was to be held in Paris in accordance with, the decision taken by the Council before it last separated to the effect that any emergency meeting which might be necessary should take place there „
In order to avoid expense as much as possible the staff to be taken for the Council Meeting bad been reduced to the lowest possible limits.
In order to .keep the Governments in touch with cur point of view Mr. Slavik had gone to Prague to see M„ Bones, I. Vare y/as fortunately in Rome, and M. Kantoux had gone to Paris,
Me Comert said that he thought there was no danger of people complaining of the delay In the mooting of the Council,
He had discussed it with a number of journalists who thought that a meeting on the 13th was as rapid action as could be hoped for.
IvL, Rappard said that he thought it important that no document should be issued by the Secretariat setting out the arguments adduced by the Secretary-General on this point
because it might bo quoted as a precedent and would in hie
breach
view be a most unfortunate me, If there was a	of
the Covenant Article 16 should be applied automatically and immedia tely»
The Secretary-General agreed, with this point of view
in general and with Professor Rappard's desire that no
document should be issued, either officially or unofficially,
tut the particular case in question seemed to him a special one
we r e
for the reason that there	no frontiers between
.Albania and Serbia, and that, therefore, it was impossible to say at any given moment that a breach of the Covenant had occurred,
hr. van Hamel enquired whether in the telegram sent to the interested parties any indication had been given of preliminary action to be taken before the Council actually met.
The Secretary-General replied that the telegram had contained an invitation to the parties to prepare statements of their case for circulation to the Council if they wished to do so, and to nominate representatives□
2. UPPER SIIESIk
The Secretary-General reported that M. Ador had been invited to act as Chairman of the German-Polish Comaission to draw up the economic agreement, but that he had refused.,
In refusing it he had proposed Mr, Calonder as his substitute, and Viscount Ishii had approved this suggestion, which had accordingly been circulated to the Counci 10 It was hoped that the agreement of all the Members would be received in a day or two.
The Secretary-General asked that this information should be considered as confidential until all the Members of the Council had agreed.
-3-
3
PRINTING in T‘?o TANGPAGES
Mr. Yigier had. ¡Bads a. proposal that docume bs issued by the Secretariat to Members of the league should be circulated only in one language instead of in two as at present,, and that Members of the League should be ached to say in which language they preferred to receive them. This would mean a great saving in money.
The Secretary-General said, that he considered this proposal practical only for printed publications and certainly not for Council documents, which in order to facilitate business ought without question to be printed and circulated in both languages.
Professor Attolioo said that he had already carried out the suggestion for all Transit papers and for all the documents prepared in connection with the Barcelona Conference. The same practice had been adopted by the Epidemics Cocmission in preparing its report on the Typhus Campaign in Poland, and it had also been adopted by the International Labour Office,
The Secretary-General said that nevertheless it seemed to him essential that all Council documents and all papers prepared for Committees and Conmicsions should be excluded from the proposal, but that reports might be printed in one language only.
Dr, van Hamel raised the question as to whether Treaties should he published in more than one language. It seemed to him that in order to get publicity they must be published in at least one of the official languages of the League as well as in the original.
It was agreed to ash M. Yigier to p?epare a plan showing the documents to which he thought his proposal might be applied.
It was suggested that he should divide the documents into three categories
-4
a)	Those to which he was clear that his proposal should be applied}
b)	Those to which he was clear that his proposa], should not be applied;
c)	Those about which he was doubtful,
4 » COUITCIT. bSETIPGS AND LllhOhlTIUS
Mr. Colban enquired whether it was certain that the next meeting of the Council was to be held on January 12th.
The Secretary-General replied that it was most important that no extraordinary meeting should be allowed to interfere with that arrangement on any account.
Mr. Colban then enquired whether a meeting of the Minorities Committee of the Council might be held during the meeting of the Council next week.
The Secretary-General replied the! he thought this was possible and desirable.
Mr. Colban further enquired whether it would be possible to begin discussions on the composition of the German-Polish Commission to be set up in Upper Silesia,
The Secretary-General thought that this also would be desirable if the names of any candidates could be secured, ho was anxious that the names of candidates, particularly of persons from those countries which did not take part in the war, should be suggested as soon as possible.
Mr. Colban remarked that the work and functions of this German-Polish Commission would he in many respects very similar to that of the High Commissioner in Danzig.
-5-
5
DISARMAMENT
Professor Attolico enquired if the Information Section thought it would he possible to prepare special reviews of the Press containing news of the Disarmament Conference in Washington.
M. Cornert thought he would have no difficulty in arranging for his section to do this, and also that these special Press reviews might he circulated to Members of the Temporary Mixed Commission.
Professor Attolico further said that he thought the next meeting of the Temporary Mixed Commission should he postponed until January, but not later. He said he had discussed this matter with a number of the Members of the Commission and with Mr. Jouhoux and Mr. Oudegeest, who were attending the Labour Conference. They both agreed with him that the meeting ought to he postponed until January.
Another question arose as to whether the Conference for private manufacture should he held in the early future.
He thought it wiser to wait for the results of the Washington Conference before any steps were taken to summon a Conference.
The Secretary-General enquired whether it would he possible for the preparation of the plans to he carried on, and Professor Attolico replied that he hoped to press on with this work without delay.
The Secretary-General further enquired from Professor Attolico whether it would he possible for him to discuss certain matters concerning statistics jointly with Mr. McKinnon Wood in the early future. ProfessopAttolico agreed.
-6-
The Secretary-General said that it might be desirable -to bare a joint meeting of all sections concerned with statistics sometime in the near future, but that it was not as yet possible to arrange a date -
5 □
YAP L0\
l3 j j	ega	1 Sec	tion had
rlie	act	ron w	hioh was
Seer	eta	riat	in order
*£yrr ■	T-li	e Ass	embly. It
ful	fo:	r th i	s paper to
Og	ere	taria	,t. aa soon as
poseibloo
Itj Ra¿1 clman announced that two new contributlona to the Typhus Fund had been received in reply to the Assembly appeal. £1,000 had been received from Belgium - this was a second contribution - and a million crowns from Cy.echc-
Slovenia
3LSAGU3 OF NATIONS
et r i but -j 1 to
'T^r'Socretarios General uid Directors
Geneva,
25tli November 19 21.
VIRUTHS 01 1)1 RIG TORS MDDTI1IG HD1D OR TU33MY
NOV GLIB HR 22nd 19 21.
S s or eta try Gon oral
M. Lion not
Commendxtorc Anzilot ti
Dr.Hitobo
Sir H rbart Amen
Prof ,;gor Attolico
Hr. Oolban
In Gon ■'rt
1,111,i ■. into me
Mr. Nixon
Dr. Roijchmnnn
LI. Gatastini
LIr. Van 111 o rs urn
Mr. Vial tors and Mr. 3-.Jc or (Sooroturios )
Tho Secretary General referred to tho p<aper oiroulatod by Dr, Van Hamel setting forth the Council's work arising out of tho Assembly. He thought this paper would be very useful to the Secretariat, but hesitated to send it to the Council: 1~ . ] because it was now ra hor lute to do so 2C} because a good deal of tho action referred to had already been taken. He hoped that the various sections would read it through and see if all necessary action was being carried ^ oute
The points of general interest to the League whiol bad arisen since the last mooting wore equally well known to all*
The Council mooting on Albania had been most successful, -and it was remarkable that the Yougo-Slavs had definitely said that it was because of tho threat of Article 16 that they accepted the decision of the Conference of Ambassadors. Thu Polish-Go man negotiations would begin at Genova on Wednesday 25rd. A S} eoi .1 Secretariat was being formed i which would be entirely at LI.Calendar's disposal. Professor Attolico
would., .
/
-2-
Iwould keep in general touch with negotiations as a whole and M.Denis | would he in charge of the material arrangements, while as regards special subjects, eoonomie matters would be dealt with by MM,Dennis and loveday, minorities questions by Mr. Colban and legal questions by Dr. Van Hanoi. It was not yet decided whether the whole Conference would take plnoo at Soneva or partly on the spot, nor had any decision teen mado regarding publicity. Full publicity was of course impossible, tut some was neoossary. Dorhaps the President ought to suggest that neither sido should give out anything but that he should issue every day, through the Information Sootion q, co nr;'era quo agreed by both sides; of course we oould not hope that there would be no leakage.
Sir Herbert -toes asked what the Serbians had felt about the use made of Artiolo 16. The Sec ret at?; Gen oral said that he did not think it had left bitterness behind, but one of the Delegates had oome to him afterwards and said that the uso of the threat was dangerous; that it oaused fooling in the country against the League and that but for the faot that the Powor which had used it was one for which they felt great friendship, the Serbians would probably have refused to attend the mooting.
Mr- Comort said that to Judge from the replies received to his circular, the Secretariat generally agreed that the view of the Union of voluntary Associations that it was the most practical method to have one Member of his Section to deal with this business. He of course weloomod individual relations with national organisations, but thought two things necessary! 1°) that copio3 or summaries of letters written by individuals to their national organisations should go to He lie, Radzlwill; 2°) that the dossier of correspondence with each organisation would be open to be seen by anybody conoomed. This point was generally agreed to.



'





-3-
M„ (V mort said that his circular on the necessity of a Document Officer "being appointed to check every document sent out from the Secretariat was inspired by two serious errors with regard to the Upper Silesia documents: 1°) The copies sent to the Supreme Council were unchecked and contained mistakes;
£°) that the copies sent to the British Press were actually wrcngo Had any German taken the trouble to check the Times and the Temps together6 the consequences would have been deplorable„ As the first point "Free importation of goods" had by mistake been put for "reimportation of goods”0
M, Colban agreed as to the seriousness of such mistakes, but in defence of the existing machinery said:
1°) he thought they were rare and 2°) in the case quoted the whole machinery had not been used» He thought no official paper should go out save under the direct responsibility either of the Secretary-Generalrs Department, or of the Director of section concerned* It would then be clear where lay the responsibility for mistakes* This, he thought was better than M. Corneras proposal, which would lead to difficulty whenever there was a rush* Further the drafting Committee had the responsibility of checking every document sent out*
M; Comort said that what he wanted was not to know where the responsibility for mistakes was, but to prevent their happening - Who was to do this ? The drafting Committee existed, yet these mistakes happened* At the Quai d’Orsay they had smiled and said that the documents sent to Germany and Poland were correct, because there they had someone who checked what was sent out l
Ms Montour agreed that no documents of importance should be issued without having been read and checked by someone and signe accordingly* Who ought to do this ?
P
It might: a) he done always hy the same person, acting
under the Secretary-. General, or b) a decision could be made in
each case who should be responsible. Our most important document,
*
were always likely to be produced under hinh pressure and the checking system may cause delay, but in his opinion it was worth while always to have it. The Translation should also be checked in every case.
Mr. Colban said that for important documents, his Section put on the Disposal sheet that the final Proof v/as	/
to be seen by Mr. A* or Mr, B. He thought other Sections might well adopt the same procedure.
The Secretary-General said there were two rather different subjects of discussion:
fl) For ordinary papers we have a system which now works well. (2) papers of groat urgency come in a different category, but could M, Comert’s proposal in any case apply to these? The ordinary machinery was not used for the Upper	'
Silesian papers. Circumstances made it impossible. Had the Upper Silesian papers been checked either by the ordinary or A extraordinary machinery they would have missed the post they had to catch. This case was also exceptional in that the work was mostly done on Sunday and late at night. He thought therefore for urgent papers the new Documents Officer proposed could not be used while for others a check already existed; those concerned with the work all agreed that to establish a new Officei would bo to add a new and unnecessary wheel to the machinery.
M, Comert said that the copies intended for the Press
been
had/kept three days in his Section before being sent out. As however they were confidential capers, his Section was not in a posiitio
y -
to know whether they were correct or not. Further he had often seen very serious mistakes, particularly mistakes of translation
tu documents given to the Counoil« He would produce a memorandum on the subject for the next Directorsf meeting.
After a good deal of dioussicn. K, Monnet said M» Comartrs proposal fell under two heads:	l) Should we have someone to check
documents at the moment of sending tdcm cut ? This. in ¡reived the creation of a. new Officer« E) What is to be done to avoid the serious errors which are sard to occur at present ? He suggested that these questions should be submitted to the Staff Committee was concerned with questions of internal arrangements of the Secretariat,
!ihe Secretary^0er.era 1 said it was necessary to del more exactly what documents wore meant: did it include let'1 did it include Committee documents as well as Council and J> documents?
Prof es fj 0 r JLtt olico wished to point out as a mat' of principle that in any case the responsibilities of each ought not to be in any way lessened.
The Secretary-General said that the discussion must be adjourned until Ha Comertrs memorandum had been prepared and had been submitted to the Drafting Committee and perhaps the Distribution Branch for their observations « Ho appealed to all Sections to ensure that not only decisions but that the material m&â,3ù:?«>e/fco give effect to them were taken« He felt that if the existing regulations for treatment of documents were strictly followed it would greatly reduce the chance of errors such as those referred to«
-6-
ASSHfeBLY MINUTESi
Jhe Secretary-General raised the question on which he had siroulated two minutes tc the Directors, as to whether Secretaries of Assombly Committoes should inolude in their Prooes-Yerbaux full written statements made by Delegates if tho latter requested then to do soi The question was not an easy one to answer. The Pditors of tho oinutos said that suoh written statements dofnpletely spoilt the character and balance of their minutes * On the other hand it was not clear that the Secretariat had any right to refuse inch a request made by a relegate.
M.Monnot was strongly of the view that the insertion of suoh written statements would destroy the character of the minutes, and should bo refused»
M. Comert agreed with this view, but expressed the opinion that written statoments oould be inserted if tho Committee itself agreed.
This was alsu tho opinion of Signor Attolioe, but UcHantoux said ho thought that even this principle involved difficulties, as Delegates sometimes brought written statements nuoh more elaborate and lengthy than even the speeches they had actually delivered in Committee.
It was a greed that in the particular case cf tho minutes of
Committee Ho. 5 under discussion, the written statements in question
must be left in the minutes, sines these minutes had been approved
ty the Committee with the written statements included.
the
With regard to/future, it was agreed that in general the Secretary of the Commiditee, if he has any doubt as to tho inclusion of a written statement, chould consult the President, who should cither give a ruling himself or should ask tho Committee to do so.
It was further agreed that in any case, it would usually bo better fo insert written statements if at all as an annex to the minutes.
PRINTING CF MINORITY PETITIPUS„
Mr. Colban said that Sir Herbert Anes had raised the point as fo whether lengthy minority petitions should only be printed in one language for circulation to Members cf the League, since they were -dually too lengthy to be circulated in roneo.
-7-
Ife was a gr í: Cid that each oass should be settled on its rerits g regard to the ru>. lure and urgency of tho Doounr-nt an question,
/
LEAGUE OP NATIONS
v>
istributed__to rdcr Socrotarlos General :^pireotors .
9tli I'ocember 1921.
No. 30.
Gan ova
MINUTES OP TIES DIE EC TOES MEETING HEED ON V ED N.3S DAY 8 th.
DECEMBER 1921.
PEESENT:
Secretary General Commendatore Anziiotti Dr. Nitob6 Sir Herbert Ames,
M. Mantoux Mr. Oolban M. Ruppard Mr. Nixon Mr. Cummings
Mr-. Valters (Secretary)
The Sec rotary-General said that he had asked M. Hymans to fix the date of the Council meeting, suggesting January 10th. or 12th.
It seemed likely that the meeting would last about 10 days, and the meeting of the Court was summoned for January 30th.; the provisional agenda and list of Rapporteurs had hoen sent to M*Hymans and in view of the imminence of Christmas and New Year holidays, he thought Governments would desire to receive the necessary documents as soon as possible.
There was a point he wished to mention regarding the preparation in the Secretariat of memoranda for Council meetings. In cases where the. member of the Council would act as Rapporteur, he thought £• oleax' distinction should bo made between the memorandum by the Socretary-General which should simply include all the facts and only in the broadest way give the consideration which might affect the Council's decision, and the rapporteur's report which should propose definite action by the Council and give the reasons for it. Mr.Colban
~2~
said that it had come to his notice that reports by the Secretariat were being used as official documents in discussion between Governments, and this emphasized the necessity for the Secretariat to be very c reful in expressing opinions,
Tho Secretary General said that his recent visit to Rome had, he thought he might say been distinctly successful. Ho had been given a most hind welcome and given every facility which could bo desired, His general impression was that the Italian Government was quite favourable to the idoa of the League, but even in Government oireles there was a certain amount of ignorance as to the real facts of its worhing. The fact that Italy would soon have only one very high official in the Secretariat instead of two was causing a certain amount of resentment and difficulty. He had of course explained that this situation arose entirely out of the action of the Assembly over which he had no control.
Loan; hile the Council’s decision on Albania- and Upper Silesia had had an excellent effect. Amongst the Press he had met much good will towards the League.
With the Permanent Head of the Foreign Office,Senator Contarini, -he- had had two long,talks. Signor Contarini was a supporter of tho League, but expressed the view that it should avoid dealing with questions which arise strong national feelings. He agreed however that wo must find a middle my between this difficulty and that of disappointing public opinion by not using it enough. He seemed to understand the League better than any official he had met outside tho Secretariat,
Hr came away convinced that such visits were of great value and should be repeated whenever possible.
As regards Washington he had no definite nows.
Ho had circulated a number of letters and telegrams from Lir. Swoetser, and intended also to circulate in a strictly confidential way a letter from M. Pelt to M. Comert.
For the next Council meeting, names liad to be found for one or
two/
3
two Committees:
a)	Traffic in foiaen and Children Commission:- Probably 9 representatives of States.
b)	Commission on conciliation procedure,- This should probably be a vGry small Commission.
c)	Commission on Intellectual work.- hr. Hitob6 was considering names for this.
d)	Perhaps two nor names v/ould have to be found for the Allocation Commission.
k discussion took place regarding dir Herbert Amos’ intanorandura proposing a weekly bulletin to include the various circulars at present sent round in the Secretariat. Sir Herbert Aiaes mentioned that in connection with recent meetings of the Staf f,documents amounting to 03 pages had been circulated to the number of 400 copies each. It was true that thero was a rule that documents wore not to bo circulated without the consent of either the Secretary-General, the Chairman of the Staff Committee or the .establishment Officer, but this rule was by no means strictly observed. He thought his scheme v/ould be of advantage: lo) to those who receive documents , who v/ould thereby only have to receive and read one long document per week instead of many different ones. So) to those who wish to circulate some item since the woekly bulletin would be much more certain to bo read. 3o ) In saving a good deal of money, time and labour.
He proposed that the weekly Bulletin should bo edited by a Idembcr of the Information Section who v/ould abbreviate a great deal when possible. His list of the sort of notices which might be included, was of course open to revision^
On the other hand it was urged that the present situation was abnormal in regard to the circulation of documents on Staff questions. Further it would be the reverse of economy to circulate urgent papers at once and then repeat them in a weekly Bulletin, yet
4
this would seem unavoidable ; and the same applied to notices vhich wero at present put on the board. It was decided to put off a decision until three months experience of next Year's working.
A discussion followed with regard to the possible future policy of the League in the Polish-Lithuanian question.
Co inmen da to re Anzilotti said tint the Court was summoned l
l
for the 31st of January. It would however not hold its first meeting until it had, in a number of preliminary meetings, decided its rules of procedure etc. He thought these meetings would probably last 4 to 6 weeks, after which the Court would be able to doal with ques tions duly submitted to it.
Mr, xii--on said the Economic and Financial Committee will meet probably in January. Ho hoped the meetings could be here, but it was not quite certain. Failing Geneva, London was "(probably the best place. In reply to a question ho said tint the Bill now before Congress, with regard to war debts was expected to be dealt with before Christmas. The President was urging that it should be passed, so that there were good hopes for it.
Wi, Rappard referred to the statement which had boon published that the Washington Conference would lead to a Conference on the orivate manufacture of Arms. After what the Assembly had done on this point, it would be most unfortunate for the Loaguo to be ■/holly outside such a Conference, which might be held jointly by -he League, and the United (States. Should not Signor Schanzer or 'r« Balfour bo asked to tear &his mattei in mind?
As regards the recent visit to London, Paris and Brussels of ■ sub-Committee of the Mandates Commission, hi^said that their reception n Pond on had been admirable. The feeling amongst the various PTicials whom they had encountered towards the League had been xtraordinarily warm, and hod very much impressed the Members of the ub-Committce. In Brussels they had been very well received. In iris the principal men concerned were all away at Washington, but
an intor-departmental Committee had nor boon formed to consider the question, while as regards the viovw of the Japanese Government, these could not he received in time for the next Council meeting. A preliminary report ‘would. however be submitted by the Marquis îheodoli on the subject of Mandates, i'ho Secretary-General said that Cardinal Gaspari had informed him that the Vatican would shortly send in a memorandum about the Palestine Mandates.
hr. Raj oh man said that ho had written a minute about tho forthcoming Conference in London under the auspices of the Health Committee which, at the suggestion of the Secretary-General would bo circulated for information.
Mr. Cummings said that the promised memorandlom from the
Association of Journalists accredited to the league had not yet had
arrived. He/asked the correspondent of the TULIPS vho is Secretary of tho Association to hasten it and it was expected in a few days.
As regards the South American bureau, his Section must await M. Comert's return.
The Secretary General said that he was inclined to deal with this question at the Council meeting following the next one.
Sir Herbert Ames asked that in order to carry out the recommendations of the Commission of Control, ho might receive at once information from any Section which had placed orders for which the bills had not yet been received, so ho could arrange to close the books and pay all bills by the first of January. Ono new arrangement was necessitated hy the action of the Commission, namely that at the tisma when any expenditure is authorised a form showing the approximate amount must be sent by tho person authorising to the appropriation Officer.
6
Ho proposed some economies in the purchase of newspapers
4
for the Secretariat. The Secretary General agreed that it wae reasonable to limit the number of copies to any one paper received by a section to 2: one for tho Director and ore for the section., any limitation on papers taken by the Library should be dealt with cautiously.
Dr. Ilitob6 said that there was evidently some confusion of thought regarding the Committee on Intellectual CO-operation. This was indicated by tlx different names given to the Committee by different people. Ip hat he thought would be established was a small Committee of not more than 9 or 10 members, the scope of Fv'hose discussions would be a restricted one- and perhaps consist aainly of the question of the speedy exchange of scientific Information. The names would therefore mostly bo those of scientists in the wide sense of the word.
Tho Secretary Gene ral remarked that the Assembly had ¡specially emphasised the question of r omen Members of this ¡ommittea and expressed the view that there ought to be at least wo.
LEAGUE QF
MATIONS,
C - s tribu ted to frlor-Secretaries-General Sir e c tor s,
No, 31.
Geneva,
30 th » Dec amber,1921,
MINUTES OF A DIRECTORS1 MEETING HELD ON WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 28th, 1921,
present:- M, Monnot
Comir.endatore Anzilotti
Dr. Nitobe
Sir Herbert Aires
Dr, van Hamel
Mo Comert
Mr„ Coi'ban
Me Rappard
Mo Mantoms
Dr * Raj chman
Col, Hiam	Mra Buxton (Secretary)
LI, Monnet ashed Dr. Rajohman first to give an account of his visit to Moscow, and also of the meeting of the Health Committee in London»
1, Visit to Moscow» * 1 2
A. i Dr. Rajchman said that :
(1)	all investigations and statistics showed a westward movement of the epidemic.
(2)	any action by the Epidemics Commission in the countries bordering Russia became, under these conditions, impossible, if it were not supplemented by action in the interior of Russia, whence the diseases originated.
He wont to Moscow, with Dr, Homan White, as Director of the Health
1 Section, in order to try and collect details of the epidemic situation Da Russia, and of the state of the sanitary organisation there.Sunh information had been received on the situation in Roland, and partly on the (situation in Lithuania and Latvia, but they had been practically in the |‘'rk as regards Russia. The idea in going was partly to strengthen the pmitary cordon on the western frontier of Russia, but 3till more to intensify the attacks on epidemics at their source in Russia. gYBHUS.
He found that the accounts of typhus had been under-estimated, plenty million cases had occurred during the last 2 years. The mortality gil not exceed 8 to 13$. In a good year there were usually 1,500,000 If0tifloations of typhus in Russia. In Poland there had been
-2-
been 44,000 notifications in 4 months, whereas there had been 500,000 in the same period in Russia. There was moreover a grave westward movement of the focus of typhus from its original home in the East. Reports of this disease from Eastern Poland and Russia were, at the present moment, very grave.
OHOLERA.
Cholera had come in the form of a sudden epidemic in Russia, which fell as quickly as it rose.
TYPHOID PETER.
There had been a bad outbreak of Typhoid Fever, but a marked diminution in wild Fevers, for some unexplained reason.
The sanitary organisation of the Soviet Government was really very efficient indeed, because the Government had put the Health Administration in the best hands it could find, only the posts of political importance being reserved for Bolshevists The Government had tried to get the best men, and with few exceptions* the best men had come forward, and played the erame.
The Public Health Service in Russia was mainly run by men who had worked formerly in the zemstvos. Dr. Ranchman had seen the Minister of Public Health, who had previously also been in a zempstvo. He was a prominent Bolshevik, Dr, Siemashko. He had p.lso seen Professor Tarassevitch, who was working for the Government and was a well-known scientist of Europe, who had visited London, Paris and Rome on Red Cross Missions during the war and has stuck to his post through all the changes of Government. Dr. Rajohman had checked all information received in his conversations with this man. He had suggested to Dr. Siemashko:-
1) That the Polish and Russian Public Health Services should co-operate, since they were doing the same work. They were at present working in water-tight compartments and, in consequence, meeting with perpetual difficulties and friction.
Dr. Ra.jchnan had therefore suggested the negotiation of a Sanitary Convention between Russia and Poland, to which Dr.Siemashko
had /
3
had agreed, and M. Litvinoff had promised his support.
2]	That the Russian Government should supply systematic information of Health returns and relevant information« This had been agreed to, and the Government had kep$ its promises«
Dr, Rajchman said that he had found general suspicion of tho Leaguo, and that M« Litvinoff had told him that hr. Siemashko had at first been reluctant to hr. Rajchmon's visit. As a matter of feet, he was at first reserved, but became perfectly friendly and straightforward afterwards. Ho explained that their special need was sanitary material, mainly drugs, of which they had practically none, although their hospital material was fairly good. Drugs, costing £3,500 had, by the consent of the Health Committee, been actually sent, in response to this request. In addition, after hr. Ranchman's return to Geneva, hr. Nansen had placed at the disposal of the Health Committee all his sanitary stores, so that a further large quantity of stores had been supplied, hr, Nansen had asked the Secretary-General to give authority to the Health Committee to send one of their officers to work under hr. Nansen's Committee, hr. Farrar, a famous epidemiologist, had been sent. He was unfortunately at present seriously ill with typhus, and a substitute would have to be found to take his place. His instructions were to dispense sanitary relief through the Public Health Service of the country, and to soe that the supplies reached their urouer destination. The Nansen Committee merely handed over supplies coming from abroad. His duties were not confined to the same area, but included
1)	the strengthening of the sanitary defence in the west of Russia ;
2)	the forwarding of information regarding epidemics and the movements of refugees ;
3)	persuading the Russian Government to negotiate sanitary conventions with other countries.
/Although
Ly
Although the Russian Government had agreed to conclude a sanitary convention with Poland, they appeared to ho taking no steps to do so, and nor cover wore not adopting tlio defensive measures agreed upon on the western frontier, which had resulted in a break in the cordon. It had been pointed out that if this attitude continued, it might ho necessary to stop sanitary relief.
©10 Russian authorities appeared to bo trying to make a political bargain over tho convention, and also to keop the League out of it.
THE TEETING 0? THE HEALTH C0II1ITT5E I?T LCIHIOP,
The purpose of the meeting in London was to arrive at an international standard in therapeutic sort-., which had boon of three typos - French, German and American, - of which the Germ,an 'Was the one generally adopted before tho war.
The Conference had persuaded tho existing State Laboratories to do the remaining work necessary to complete standardisation.
The French Delegate proposed general acceptance of the Gorman standard, which was agreed to, and it was decided that a now Conference should be held at the Pasteur Institute in the summer, to report progress in the work done in the Laboratories.
The Unit d States was represented officially, but undor a camouflage, by Assistant Surgeon General Blue 3ent by Surgeon General Cummings. He came ostensibly to attend the Conference as if it had boon convened Jointly by the Health Committee of the League and the Office Int'rnstioiml. General Cumrings had written saying that although his Government did not want to have d alings with the Leasrue, ho would do all he could to help through cooperation by moans of their reure3ontation at tho Office.
The President had succeeded in persuading the Germans to com.o, although they had at first been reluctant. The French, German, English and Italian languages had been used, and the President had made his opening speech in each language, one after the other,
/The
The senior German Delegate had made a very favourable report to his Government on his return. The Soviet Government ms to hu'< j been represented, but unfortunately the invitation arrived too late. The Conference, however, had received a telegram of good wishos from the Soviet Government? Professor Tarassevitch would come to Geneva to confer with Professor Kadsen, tho President of tho Health Committee, during tho next meeting of the Council.
Mo Monnat considered Dr, Pa j ehm&n1s report of tho utmost interest and irrportanco, oapecially at the present moment, as it had political as well as scientific bearings. He thought that considerable publicity should be given to the facts - (1) in scientific journals* (2) in a few high-clas3 Reviews.
Mo Mantoax thought that the present was just the moment for general publicity, for 2 reasons
1} because only good could now core from showing that direct communication had been made with the authorities in Russia:
2) because a demonstration that the League could help to defend humanity from disease would appeal to everyone.
Sir Herbert Ames thought that any communication stating that the countries of Europe were beginning to cooperate through the League would be the best possible propaganda in North America and the United States.
Dr. RajohranTs only fear was that too much publicity might make the scientists think that the Conference had been called for political purposes,
M.- Rappard considered that any evidence to show that we were alive was most important. Everything should he done to gain tho support of the scientists of the world, as no one enjoyed more public confidence than they.
It was agreed that, in addition to publicity in technical Health Journals, articles, not too technical in character, should be aent to a few high-class Reviews, as soon as.Dr, Rajohmah considered
/tho
tho beat moment had arrived, but that this action should not be too long delayed.
Dr. Fajoilman referred to the fact that tho ftmd3 of tho Health Committee were practically exhausted, Franco Spain and Holland had not paid their promised contributions.
M. Monnet agreed that an appeal should be made to those Governments, by Members of the Secretariat, and that Dr. R&iehman should prepare a report for the Council of a kind which could bo comr'unicatod to tho Press as soon as the Council had seen it-,
THE SAAR,
Me Monnet said that ho and Mr. Colban and Mr. Gilchrist had just returned from tho Saar,
The situation was rendered extremely difficult, because, owing to the stipulations of the Treaty, its fate must remain uncertain for 15 years. They had mads a complete study of the past actions of tho Commission and tried to arrive at an opinion as to a settled policy for the future, They had seen all the Members of the Commission, as well os their chief assistants, and some private people.
Their impression was as follows:-
One of the main difficulties was that the Governing Commission was under the Peace Treaty not responsible to those it governed.
Tne impression of all three was that the feelings in the country were not defined. Sarrebruck was strongly German, but the rest of the country seemed to accept the position, and not to take much notice of the German propaganda, violent though it was against the Governing Commission and everything to do with it. Members of tho old Gorman Administration were moreover still there working under the Commission, but closely in touch with the German administration and naturally opposed to the Commission. The clergy, moreover, were under the higher clergy in Germany. Tho working people seemed to
/think
1
most of their pay ard their Unions, and looked at the work of the Commission from that angle.
M, Mcnnet thought that the League had a good eh an os of making a success of this experiment in international government. They had found that the Saar riember of tho Commission, Dr«Hector possessed very strong local sentiments, They thought he was a good man«
M. Monnet thought that the Members of the Commission had on the whole worked well and conscientiously« It must be remombered that they had to organise everything« It was remarkable that the Commission had done such good work. The Member whoso past experience had been least adapted to his present post v/as Ur. Moltke, but it would be a grave mistake to cast doubt on the efficiency of the Commission as a whole by making changes at the moment. It was therefore best to renew all the appointments this year, tighten the contact of the Commission with the League of Nations, and determine the line of policy and publish it in the Saar«. Members of the Commission were coming to Geneva in January for discussions about future policy.
It must be remembered that the duty of the Governing Commission was to put the Saar Basin in such a position, that it could, at the end of 15 years, vote either for union with Germany or with France, or for autonomy.
vyhat the Commission lacked was contact with the people.
So far,owing to the difficulties of the situation it had confined itself too much to administrative work. Moreover, it was not possible to constitute a Saar Parliament, Tho b«3St method of increasing thoir authority over the country seemed to him to bo for the Commission to strengthen and increase its contact with the district Councils., and appoint advisory bodies on technical matters and then work through them«.
Owing to the rates of exchange in Germany and France, the country was in an excellent position for trading, and its exports
/wore
z
were inoroasing. The men wore paid in franca, hat paid for what they bought in marks, which pat thorn in a very favourable position» On the whole, it was a cheap country to ran, hat according to the general German system the manftipalities had contracted debts on their own account. Owing to the fall in the nark, these debts were however not very considerable. II. Monnet believed that the country would probably soon he in a very privileged position.
Mr. Cobban. agreed with what M. Monnet had said. He considered that the machinery had now been established, and that the duty of the Governing Commission was to frame a polioy, It mast now er:.r into direct and close contact with the people on the one 3ido and the league of Nations on the other. The French troops should ho reduced to a minimum.	This redaction had already began. The
Commission had been more neutral and less dependent on Paris than he had expected. Though the population generally 3eemod to have no strong views about the Commission, it must not ho forgotten that this population was German. .During their visit to the country, the various complaints made against the Commission had been carefully considered. Complaints hud been received about the teaohing of French in the schools. This was not obligatory, either on the . pupils or on the teachers, hut he pointed out that out of £,200 teachers, 900 had asked to teach in French.
H. Rappard said that other countries looked on the Saar * administration as a sample of League Government. In Switzerland it was not looked on with favour. It was therefore most important to have evidence to confute the frequent criticisms made, ‘Aloft the Council appointed the Commission, it had a great chance of showing complete impartiality. It chose as President a French prefect-He thought the general opinion was that that choice had been unfortunato.
M. Monnet said that, while understanding that point of view,
/ho
lie thought that on the whole the choice wus right. Owing to the stipulations of the Treaty regarding the mines, the economic relations of the country were bound up with France,and the Commission could not have governed without the good will of the French Government , and it seemed that, for tho good working of Hie Commission, the choice of a Frenchman of expert administrative capacity and of high personal character was the right choice to mak IT. Hantoux said that a Frenchman as one of the Members of the Commission would have been loss impartial and referred more to France than a Frenchman in tho post of President.
MINUTES OF THE DIRECTORS' MEETINGS
1922
nos 32-67
COETIDENTIAL -
50
LEAGUE Or NATIONSv
Distributed to	lie 32,
Dad or--Socretaries-Genjral ,
Sna Pi root, ora «
M I N U T E S cf a
Directors' Mooting hold on January 5th, 1922«
Prosont :
M. MONNET
Dr. NITCEE
M. 0 01BAN
Ma COMERT
M, RAPP ARP
Mr. GILCHRIST
Mr, WALTERS-)
) Secretaries Mr. BARER _)
M, MONNET said that he wished to give the Dirootors for their strictly oonfidential information, a brief report of the situation so far a3 h© had been able to ascertain it with reference to the forthcoming meeting at Cannes«, Owing to the faot that the experts ¿it the recent meeting in Paris included two members cf the Loagufeb Financial Commission, as well as other friends of his, he had been able to follow the discussions pretty closely. He would ask Mo Bonnet to show the actual text of the Resolutions drafted to the Directors that'afternoon,
Ii; was proposed to form a Consortium cf business houses, hacked by their Governments, in which all countries capable of doing so would bo invited to take part, in a proportion to be determined later. It would havo a nominal capital cf £20s000,000, but the various enterprises undertaken in different countries would involve subsidiary organisations with separate oapital, to bo
partly
-2-
partly provided by the country helped, The details of the scheme had not been worked cut at all at present,
There were two main questions for consideration:-
(1)	Relations with Russia» To re-establish these relations is perhaps the chiof object of tho plan» This would involve on the one hand de jure recognition of the Soviet, and on the other acknowledgment by the Soviet of Government debts; ©f the right
of foreigners in Russia to hold private property; and their acceptance of a tribunal to decide legal questions involved,
All this remained to be discussed in detail at Cannes.
(2)	Tho holding of a Conference, to which amongst others Germany, Russia, Brazil and the Argentine would be invited, in order to make an official and public declaration of the conditions which must govern the application, by States needing help, for the cc-operation of the Consortium, This from one point of view
would merely bo a develop" ment of the declarations of the league
\
Conference at Brussels, As to the question of tho United States’ participation in tho Conference, opinions were divided, some thinking that any participation was invaluable, others that full representation would be valuable but that tho mere presence of observers was no use.
He felt that it was most important that tho League should bo identified with this work and its machinery be used for it.
Even should the Consortium or the Conference be a failure, to be
left out would be a serious blow from tho point of view of public
\
opinion, which would conclude that no confidence was placed in the league for soriouo questions. The Prime Ministers would be there and it would be valuable to get them thus in touch with tho league.
League
League participation of course raised in an acute form the question of the United Statest Ho hoped, however, that those concerned would he convinced, as ho was himself, that the League ought to he used and that if there were real work being done the United States would come along anywayu
Professor Attolico had been asked to go with the Italian Prime Minister 'to Cannes and the Secretary-General had agreed on the understanding that he was there in no official capacity and not at all -as a member of the delegation-, Ee (Mo Monnet) had communicated to Prcf, Attolico and to the French and British experts a note based on an important suggestion from Pro Rajchmann, to the effect that it would be absolutely necessary to take sanitary measures cn a* large scale in Russia in order to make commercial relations possible. The fact that the League was already engaged in this work led to an obvious conclusion,
M3 Mantoux thought there was one consideration which might strongly influence MM = Briand and Lloyd George in the direction cf seeking tho co-operation of the League; that was the fear that this scheme would be regarded by strong sections in all countries as an attempt to conquer Russia and the destitute parts of Europe by the capitalistic countries. Such an impression would be less strong if the scheme were being administered through the League.
Italos
Confidential,
LEAGUE OF NATIONS,
Lis tributad to
ddar-Secretarlcs~Genorul	Not ¡33,
'id Liractors,
Geneva,
23rd. January ,1922.
MINUTES OF TEE DIRECTORS7
’VEDIJESLAY JANUARY 18 th
ÍEUTING HELL OK 1922.
PRESENT:
Secretary ^General
Ir, Nitobé Professor Attolico,
Sir Herbert Aires,
Mr, Colban M„ Comert Ur.Van Hanoi M. Mantons Dr, Rajchmar.n Professor Rappard Mr. Nixon Mr. Huston M, Bonnet
Mr. Walters and Mr. Baber (Secretaries)
1» The Council Meeting.
The Secretary-General said that the Council had got through a
10 days agenda in five days. The agenda had b*on of a second rate
a
importance, and in such/case we must expect two things; 1st) that we should not get the most important people a3 representatives; 2nd, ) that the publicity will not be good,
M. Comert said that publicity in France had been good; in the United States also good, although in England it had boon bad.
Attention was drawn to the fact that the date of the next Council meeting was fixed for April 25th.
2» The Opening of the Court.
The Secretary-General said the Court would meet on January 30th. He wished to consult the meeting in the following dilemma: The Court must begin by deciding whether the Deputy judges should take part in its discussions. There was a- gi eat	w........ .
Z.
great probability that tho deoision would be in the negative, and if 30, they could at once proceed to elect their President and hôld their big public meeting on tho afternoon of January 30th. If on
the other hand the Deputies wore to bo called, there could bo no
«
big meeting until about the tth or 5th. Thus, either there must be something of an anti-climax in holding the big mooting several days after the opening meeting or we must run the rish of having journalists and others there on January 30th. and providing them with nothing of great interest until February 4th, He hoped in any case that M. Bourgeois would represent the Council at the big meeting and make a speech.
M. Comert said that it was most important to hare the date known 10 days in advance, and he would therefore fix the meeting on : say February 4th. for certain.
Professor Attolico pointed out that in any case, the speech of the President might be of great importance and he ought to be allowed 24 hours at least to work on it after election,
Mr. Huston said that ho had heard from 11. François that the Dutch Government wished to give a big reception on the day of tho meeting. It was agreed that the latter date should bo settled on. The Secretary-General said he would consult Mr. Hammerskjold as to the ac tual day.
tha t,
The Secretary-General said/xor the meantiire the Secretariat was responsible for ell the arrangements that were being mad© for the Court, and would continue to be so until the Gref tier was appointed. Re had taken the opportunity of impressing on Mr. Hammerskjold Ills hope that the expenditure in connection with the Court would be cut down to the greatest possible degree, and that in particular the Court would not build up a large technical staff which would be without employment when the Court was not In session, It would always be possible for staff to be lent by the Secretariat when the Court had pressure of work,
Professor Rappard proposed that in the interests of publicity it might be wise to ask each judge to make a speech at the opening ceremony. After considerable discussion, however, it was agreed that in view of the large number of speeches to be made in any case, it would not be wise to ask each of the Judges to make a speech, and that instead the Information Section should arrange for personal interviews with each of the judges, and perhaps for speeches to bo made by a number of them, at the formal dinner which was to bo held in their honour.
3« Conference at Cannes,
The Secretary-General said that the Conference at Cannes had taken two decisions which affected the League directly, First, that as they wished Germany, the United States and Russia to attend the Conference it should not be convoked by the Council of the League. For thi3 decision he thought there were strong arguments from their point of view.
Secondly, they had decided that the work of the Conference should not be organised by tha Secretariat of the League. It was possible that the collaboration of the Secretariat might yoi be proposed in other forms,
H
Sir Herbert Ames raised the question as to whether tho Secretary-General should allow the members of the staff to ho used in the organisation of the services of the Genoa Conference. He thought the arguments against doing sc wore very strong, To allo\7 our staff to go to Genoa would demoralise our work hers, would bring us no credit if things went right and would throw the blare on the league
if thing» wont wrong,
professor Ruppard raised a similar question as to whether norhers of the Secretariat should bo allowed to go to Genoa as combers of the national delegations.
In reply the Secretary-General thought that the experience of the Washington Conference had strengthened his view against allowing
members of the Secretariat to go as members of delegations. With regard to lending the services of the staff, ho thought it might bo possible to lend Interpreters and members of tho pool if they had no work here. If other Conferences were working on the same lines as the league, we should show a readiness to help them if it could bo done without damaging our own work.
Professor Attolioo added that he thought	it was important
rot to show our antagonism to any Conference which may have on their agenda proposals for the development or change of the League of Nations, Ts show hostility to suoh proposals would be bad policy,
Dr. 'fan Hamol supported Professor Attoliooxs view on tho grounds that in his opinion the Washington Conference and the Genoa Conference ^re both doing admirable propaganda work for the league, and were bound to help its growth in the long rum, Whatever they attempt to suoh Conferences inevitably help the League and whatever results
from them
will in the long run merge with the League. Vie must therefore keep ourselves in a receptive state of mind with regard to them«
Sir Herbert Ames and Mt Corner! replied that they thought that the fact that the Organising Committee of the Cannes Conference definitely recommended that the Organisation of the Genoa Conference should ho handed over to the Secretariat of the League, and that this proposal had been categorically refused, made a very special situation.
This being the genesis of the matter we should on no account send our staffo
Mr» Nixon said that in his view we ought not to allow our private feelings in any way to influence one: attitude towards a big question of policy, nor ought we to indicate that we have a strong view in either London or Paris»
The Seere tary-Goneral said that in view of the discussion ho thought it would bo wire to leave tho whole question open fort.-ho time beings
40 Proposal for a new Association of Nations.
The Secretary-General said that he thought it possible that Mr a lloyd Georgo would definitely put forward, a proposal for a now Association of Nations which should include the United Staton, Germany and Russia» He was noy^oloar as to Mr» Lloyd GeorgeTs intentions, and he proposed to go to London to find out what the situation actually was»
He thought that the lesson to be drawn from the situation was that we should make e'very effort to broaden our membership, particularly hy the admission of Germany, as soon as possible»
M. Mantoux said that he doubted whether the United States and Russia could be brought into the same League» The United States had recently shown no inclination either to come into the league or to put itself into relations with the Russian Government,
Sir Herbert Ames said that lie did not believe the
United States would accept an invitation to the Genoa Conference if a proposal for the new Association of Hattons were on the Agenda.
The Scoretary—General said that he was only afraid cf two things in connection with any proposal Mr« Lloyd George nigh t makeo First, that it would weaken the feeling for the League and the prestige which it had already built up5 Second, that it might make the League an election issue in England> which he thought would la unfortunates He did not believe personally that the United States would join any Association until Europe is settled economically aid politically, and ho also believed that when Europe is settled she would join any Association* He thought it worthy of note that from Mr» Sweetser:s last communications it appeared that the discussions, both on ' an Association cf Nations and on continuing Conferences, had been dropped* With regard to Germany he was sure that she would be admitted at the next Assembly if she could be induced to apply* If Germany were admitted Hussia would apply very shortly afterwards, and the League would then represent the whole except the United States*
In that situation the United States could not fail to give her full co-operation to the League3 even if she did so from outside*
5* Application for Membership from Germany^
Professor Eappard thought that the result of what the Sec re tary-'General had said wss that everyone in the Secretariat should use their influence to induce Germany to apply for Membership* To this end we should endeavour to get in touch with the liberal elements in Germany*
Dr» van Hamel said that during his stay in Upper Silesia he had been greatly struok by the effect
effect whioil the misrepresentation ox league aotion and decisions had had on German opinion, Mr» Calonder had done immense good by explaining in public the attempts which the ] etpue had made to he absolutely fair and impartial. Ho thought that if meetings could he arranged between the members of the Secretariat and liberal leaders in Germany, at which the work of the League and the grounds for its decisions could ho fully and properly explained, it would do a great deal to change public opinion.
1.1 „ Comert said that one of our difficulties was that German journalists continued to misrepresent Council decisions, even when they fully understood the ground on which they had been taken« He agreed, however, that we should work through the German League of Nations Union.
Lhe Seoretary-General said that in his opinion far more could be done by members ox the Secretariat working through their own governments and in trying to induce their governments to urge the German Government to apply for membership, than by direct action in Germany itself.
6» A League Cypher«
The Secretary-General said that he had circulated the rain alle report of Dr*Yan HanelTs Committee on a League Code and cypher He had received no observations on the subst ance of the report, and proposed thereof ore to put its suggestions into force without delay? particularly in view of the economy which would result* In ieply to a question from M> Eappard, Drt. ¥an Hamel said it would he a good deal more difficult and longer to produce a new code than to adapt an existing one* He added that further efforts would he made to find a French code *
7 * Advertisements in league pu.bliearlens *
The Secretary-General brought up the subject of advertisements in League publications. He personally hesitated very much about the Official Journal; in other publications, e.g* Monthly Summary, Bulletin of Statistics some advertisements might be accepted*
Sir Herbert Arnes opposed the idea* We had no experts in advertisement business, and to accept them might lead to difficulty and coni'us ion*.	We
should profit very little and cheapen our publications very much.
Mo Conert said that advertisements, e.ga of bocks and magazines about the League might well be accepted, but not advertisements of whisky and cigars; unfortunately it was the latter which paidc Ho would ascertain fran the loinG* what their financial results were.,
0.	At bcndance Register	The Secretary-General
said that the Books introduced sometime ago, had, owing to protests from anno Directors, been used only for that part of the staff which claimed overtime. The Commission of Control had animadverted upon this fact. He thought we must follow the Assembly^ decision.	......
Mr* Huston had suggested two ways of do imp so; 1st) To keep on the existing 'books* 2nd) To have a machine*
LI* Comert said ho must protest. He did not feel prepared to carry cut the proposal himself, and therefore could not ask his section to do so»
Mr® Colban said the Secretariat haa to follow the Assembly1 s recommendation, and this was quite apart from the of it l.snssg'/of the Commission of Control. To do so would in some ways bo very useful, while in cases where it was not, a few months experience would show, and the Assembly could be asked to alter its recommendation in due course,
On Professor Attolicors suggestion, the Socrataiy General askod M0 Comort to pr pare a memorandum on the subject for the Commission of Control, It was decided in the meantime to use the existing registration books, and they should bo applied to every body®
The Secretary-General said that he would conform and he hoped everyone else would, but that any section which found it absolutely impossible to do so should explain its reasons in a memorandum which could be pat before the Commission of Control,
Mr. Colban said that this ruling put him somewhat in a difficulty; for himself and his section thoro Tjas, ho thou^hi, no reason whatever against their complying with the AssemblyTs reGommondationc He did not wish to foil that by doing so they would weaken the ease which any section may wish to present.
The Secretary—General said ho did not think this result could follow, since it could he made plain that the circumstances of different sections were different Professor Attolioo said that if we wished to
improve time keeping the first thing was to put the
« «

I*
Office hours half an hour latere There wpa not much work ‘before
9.30,	and. 5,30 was just the hour at which every section was working at full speed. He thought it absurd to have to pay overtime when using the services, for instance ©f the pool after
5.30.
Mr. Huston said, the present hours were kept too strictly
by the administrative services, although unlo33 there wa3
work left over from the day before, there was not, for instance
in the pool, much work to be done before 9.30. H* agreed to the
they
hours being changed to 9.30 to 6, but suggested that /should b© put back to the present hours from April 15th. to October 15th,
This was unanimously approved.
Sen date 3»
M. Raopard that that if Mr. Sweotsor was right, the Unit9d States had received no communication about Mandates for the last 6 months. Ho thought this was very serious since it meant that the responsibility for a delay in putting the Mandat© system into operation which had been laid on the United States could now be more rightly laid on certain Members of the hoaguo. The Secretary-General said he thought Mr. Sweetsor’s information was inoorroct. Sir Herbert Ames said that the Budget had been drawn up on the basis of 5.50 swiss francs to the dollar, but at ths present moment 5.15 Swiss francs are worth a dollar, This meant that all appropriations are reduced by about 8Jo and the greatest economy was therefore necessary.
LEAGUE OF MATIPMS.
N o. 34
37
gtributed to
G en e vu,
^r~-Seore tari es-Gene rai
^Qfîreotors.
January 27th, 1922
;IIUTE OF THE DI EEC TOES1 METING HELL IN THE SECEETAEY-GENERAL1 S ROOM
PRESENT:
Se ore tary-General Li. Ivionnet Sigmor Attolico Sir Herbert Arnes Mr. Colban M. Coraert M. .Kantoux Dr. van Hamel M. Rappard Mr. Nixon
Mr. Walters (Secretary)
1.	The Secretary-General said that two judges said they preferred to postpone the date of the public meeting and E. van Karnebeek had alss said that the Dutch Government preferred it to he postponed till the 10th. In these circumstances, he has thought it wise to leave the decision to the Court and he had telegraphed to the judges in this sense, adding that it was most important to he able to make a definite announcement on January 30th. He intended to go to London on the 29th and to the Hague on about the 8th.
Meanwhile Sir Herbert Ames had very kindly consented to go and represent him at the preliminary meetings. This was the more suit-able in as muoh as many of the decisions to be taken would involve financial questions. He was uncertain as to the attitude the Court would adopt on the subject of appointments. He hoped it would not expect to deal direct with the Assembly on these questions, sineè the case of the Labour Office- showed this system did not work very well.
He trusted the Court would decide to submit its appointments and salari the approval cf-the Council. Sir Herbert Ames would of course 'vatoh this matter.
®n
WEDNESDAY,
JANUARY 26, 1922
2
2.	The Directors would have seen Mr. Lloyd George’s speech.
He gathered from information received that Mr. Lloyd George had no wish to destroy the League but perhaps had ideas of developing it and felt in partioular that there was a weakness in the Counail due to a number of its Members being Ambassadors, whioh he thought, rightly or wrongly, interfered with their freedom of judgment.
M. Mantoux said that the general question was psychologies! and not constitutional. tfe must first learn what the feelings of the various Governments were and then consider our attitude.
If changes must be made they should be suoh as to promote growth; taking for instance Article 10 - he thought Article 10 was neees-sary, but there was no?/ a tendency to make regional guarantees and these would, as time went on, grow together, and Article 10 would thus aome into existence as a general result of growth, not as an imposition on paper.
M. Rappard said he wondered what Mr. Lloyd George meant in criticising the League for having a written oonstitution. The Secretary-General said he thought he was thinking of the analogy of the British Empire*, but he was sure this would not work for an international body. M. Monnet said an international organisation cannot work without a clear written constitution. Your problem is first to get the people together, seeond to get them \ talking about the same thing. Its constitution is the vital thing in the League.
3,	As regards Genoa, the Seoretary-General said he had heard
a proposition had been made that individual Members of the Secretariat should be asked to work on the secretarial side of the Conference, and this had been rejected by Mr. Lloyd George.
If so, this threw a somewhat new light on the question considered last week.
3
Signor Attolico sdid this was cnotrary to his information.
He thought that Mr. Lloyd George had simply said: "Ho, the League has nothing to do with this", and that had been taken by each of the people who heard it as a rejection of whichever form of cooperation he was individually thinking of.
The Secretary-General said :that in any case we would wait to consider the matter thll a request came.
4.	The Polish and Lithuanian Governments had now sent in their replies about the Court's resolution. The Polish Government accepts it fully, the Lithuanians do not declare themselves clearly. M. Mantoux said he thought that they would refuse the decision about the line of demarcation, but would accept the reestablishment of diplomatic relations, perhaps through third Powers.
5.	The Secretary-General sad that the new Contracts would go out to the Staff that day. He wished to explain that the Library Staff had not been offered permanent Contracts for the reason that he wished to set up a small Committee to investigate the whole position of the Library. This Committee would be set up without delay.
had
Professor Attclioo said that he/understood tit t the Contracts should contain a clause with reference to the rate of conversion from gold francs in the salaries under the new Contracts, to meet the case when the Swiss franc might rise substantially upon the gold frano.
The Secretary-General said that on second thought it had not seemed necessary to insert this since it was a new point which had arisen since the Committee of five had been consulted and it did not seem to be probable that such a rise would take place. Should it happen, it might be necessary to reconsider the matter.
4 -9
Professor Attolico said wo had two deficits to face, namely, the deficit on oollection and the deficit on exchange. He did not think we ought to count on it or upon the 8 million gold francs whioh were still owing at the end of 1921.
6.	A discussion followed on the fact that some knowledge of the contents of the Secretary-General’s memorandum to the Council on the financial position of the League had been communicated to certain hewspapers, and as a result exaggerated statements had been published to the effect that the League was in serious difficulties. It was agreed that since the Assembly had decided not to (circulate the names of the States in arrears, it was not possible to circulate the memorandum even to the Governments and still less to publish it and that it was best to let the matter rest.
K. Monnet said that in his view the submission of the memorandum had in itself had a bad effect. He feared it would make it difficult to raise loans should this be necessary.
Sir Herbert Ames said that the object of its submission was tc get the Council’s support in an appeal to the Stages in arrear to pay and to get them to agree to their Government being asked to hasten ratification of“ the Amendment to Article 6. It had achieved both objects. As regards loans, he had no misgivings, since we should never ask for more than we had a practical certainty of receiving within the next month or two.
7.	Th,e Secretary-General said that the new Contracts involved in some Sections increases above the amount sanctioned in the Budget. This was due in particular to the rise in the Swiss exchange whioh led to a deficit of about 8c/o over the whole Budget. However, the whole salary list was large enough to meet all the new Contrasts, hut it might be necessary to readjust the apportionment as between the different Sections. It was therefore essential for Sections to hold their hands as far as possible as regards
- 5 -
appointing new members.
We could only reckon on getting from 80 to 85l/j of our Budget allowance and to this deficit must be added that of 8$ referred to above. This situation is very serious and he thought we ought not to postpone taking action to meet it, but should forthwith consider what economies oeuld possibly be made.
M. Hornet said he fully agreed and thought that it would be most disasterous to have to ask the Assembly for any kind of a supplementary vote, and, on the other hand, that we should go to the Assembly in a strong position if we could show that we had not waited on events, but had acted in anticipation.
The Secretary-General said that he would therefore call upon all Sections to submit statements not later than February 15th proposing reductions of not less than 20$ in their budgetary expenditures, apart from salaries. These should be forwarded to the financial Director. He asxed any Section which could not see its way to such economies to make clear exactly the reasons which made it', impossible.
L A5TJ . 0 f Ih.TIO LIS.
Distributed to Under-secret ries Gtnercl and Directors.
lio.34
Ihh.AfUU.
The following’ paragraph should be substituted for the first par* graph on page 4 of the Directors1 Meeting of Janu.ry 25th:-
Professor Attolico remarked that as we hrd then two deficits to face -- nanely the deficit on collection and the deficit on exchange— and as he did not think; we ougbt to count upon the 8 million gold francs which were still owing at the end of 192 1, it might be wise to refrain from paying lame dia tely to the staff the difference between the conversion at the actual rate of exchange aid the conversion at the rate of 24 bwies francs. This might be done at the end of the year, if the Budget wo uld allow it.
LEAGUE OP NAT 3D MS.
No, 55
distributed to_
Tndei-Seoretar ies-Goneral Sd Directors»
Geneva,
1	February, ?rd# 1922,
1
MINUTES OF THE DIRECTORS METING HELD ON WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1st, 1922,
PRESENT;
S ear etary-General M, Monnet,
Dr.» Nitobe Prof, Attolioo Dr, Van Hamel M, Mantoux M, Rappard M. Raj oilman Mr« Cummings.
M. dTKoninothun M, Duf our Mr. Gilchrist
Mr. ..alters (Secretary).
The Secretary-General said that the Oourt had put off its public meeting till the 15th, He feared this was a bad deolsion. He had tried to have it earlier, but it was decided to convoke the two remaining deputy judges, and they were given five days to make the journey. He had himself been in favour of convoking them, tut legal cplnien had appeared to be against it. He was glad to say that the Disarmament Commission was now being summoned for February 20th, in Paris, Monsieur Tiviani would probably only be present at one or two meetings. In reply to a question from Mr, Cummings, Signor attolioo said he was not in favour of much publiolty at the present moment; he had no objection to the date being announced.
The Upper Silesian negotiations would begin here on February 10th. II. Calender was optimistic as to their prospects and Press reports from Berlin wore favourable. It seeme hat
*- 2 *-
tho German negotiators had secured the support of their Government and had reported that the Poles were meeting them in a very friendly' spirit.
He would leave for London on the 5th,, go to the Hague for the meeting on the 15 th. and return to Geneva via lend on.
Signor Attolico said he had invited the co-operation of the Legal Section where his Section's work touched on legal questions. He had a meeting with Dr. Van Hamel to make a list of those Members of the Secretariat who could help in getting information about national legislation in this field.
M. Rappard hoped that this procedure did not mean that no official request for information would be made.
Such procedure would ho feared suggest that the League was timid and feared a snub. As regards the Swiss Government he thought it would be less effective. We had a right to ask and it is the duty of the Governments to reply.
Signor Attolico said that wherever information cou}.d only be got through official channels it would be officially asked for, but that in the present case it had seemed best to ask privately. Dr. Van Hamel said this was the first stage of the enquiry and that when the information resulting from it had been studied, official requests would bo made on the basis of which reports could he made to the Assembly.
Dr. Rajchman said that information lately receiving
showed that the situation in Eastern Europe was very grave.
Dr. Hansen had shown that the famine was much worse than
expected and that from seven to eight million people must
almost certainly die owing to transport difficulties. This
had a most serious effect on the epidemic situation and caused
huge emigration from the famine area westward and to the Ukraine.
Besides this many non-russian peasants had fled eastward in
1915 and now that at last there was peace in those regions were
trying....
-3-
to gat back hom to ©astern Poland, Lithuania and Latvia. Thus
throughout the epidemic districts big movements of population
wore taking place. Typhus was increasing and also relapsing
fever; typhoid wa3 becoming epidemic and, most serious of all,
cholera was reappaaring. The situation grow worae every 'week and
on the polish frontier there was now an accumulation of 150,000
people waiting to cross. The Polish sanitary cordon had boon
%
broken; typhus was getting very serious in Poland itself. In the interior of Russia it was of course immensely worse.
Rooently a Ukrainian representative had been in Geneva and had reported that cholera had re-appeared all over the Ukraine, having been brought in by railway experts borrowed from Moscow.
It was now serious in Kieff, Kharkoff and Odessa. Besides this the famine area now included all Southern Ukraine and the Crimea and this pointed to a still bigger westward movement as being likely to happen when the famine reached its height in April and May. Typhus was spreading quickly to Lithuania and the prisoners coming through under Dr.Nansen*a organisation were now frequently very frequently affected which had previously praotioally never boon the case. There was even a centre of infection in western Prussia. As regards Rumania, he had no good information.
All this was a very restrained picture of the situation.
He therefore proposed ; 1) to try and get the Governments concerned to work in a common accord; recently there had bean 'ho oo-operation and while Poland closed the frontier against Russia, the Czochs closed it against Poland and Germany against th ®m b o th •
He was glad to say that negotiations for a Polish-ussian sanitary Convention would start in Warsaw in the next few days.
2} To examine in detail the possibility of farming a
barrier 150 Kin. wide between Russia and the Ukraine, on the one
hand.....
and. oontrr 1 Enrope on the other; this barrier to extend eastward from the Russian frontier. For this purpose it was proposed to call a European technieal Conference, inviting all the Governments, hut hoping that only those really intc rested would attend.
It was clear that the resources of Russia, Ukraine, Poland and Roumania were inadequate. There must he some Government help from outside, and it had seemed necessary to wait till tho Conference reported before calling for this help.
On this point some discussion took place, Dr. Rajchm.an expressing the fear that the experience of 1920 might repeat itself when the technical Conference failed to produce a report of a sufficiently definite and arresting character to elicit largo contributions and pointing out that in dealing with the Governments concerned our position would be enormously strengthened if w® already had some fairly substantial sums in hand; while on the other hand it was urged that any appeal issued before the Conference might not receive sufficient attention since it might be considered only an attempt to strengthen our Epidemic Commission, and not as an effect of a really new and terrible situation.
The question of publicity was also discussed,
M, Rappard urged that the matter was so enormously important in itself that there was no limit to the influence which the publication of suoh a statement as Dr. Ranchman had sketched would have on public opinion, and that in order to get large contributions from tne Governments it was essential to arouse public interest beforehand.
Dr» RajchmarL-said we should not; bo justified in telling western Europe that it was in danger cf itself being invaded by pestilence, but the countries attacked were face to face with a desperate situation and unless helped their reconstruction would be indefinitely postponed. The matter had thus a very practical aspect from the point of view of the western countries who desired the re-establishment of normal trade with eastern Europe.
Prof. Attolico suggested that we should not attempt to make a show in the Press until the Conference was a certainty. The best plan would bo perhaps to issue the memorandum which we were now preparing for the-Governments in 3uch a way as to be able to state 3 or 4 days later that a league Conference was being called on the subject.
Dr. Tan Hamel said he wished to raise again the question of sending telegraphic news to the German League of Rations Union, They felt that if they could occasionally give exclusive news to the Press, they would be in a much stronger position to get propaganda articles published.
The question was a financial one. Since it could not
come from our funds, was there no way of getting it indirectly?
Would the British League of Nations Union assist for instance?
Mr. Cummings said that he did not think there was any ohanoe that the league of Nations Union would be able to spare the money. The Information Section did not send telegrams at all. This was done by the Agence Télégraphique suisse and the communiques so sent were posted the same day to many addresses, including the German League of Nations Union. They also received all documents issued to the Press,
On this material the League of Nations News Bureau managed
~ 6 ~
to get articles printed in hundreds of newspapers»
V/e could arrange for publication in Berlin of important reports simultaneously with Genera, London, Paris and Rome.
Dr. Van Hamel said he feared this meant, that German opinion would continue to bo too much neglocted. M. Monnet said he agreed entirely with the importance of German opinion, but he felt we could do no more at present than to see that our normal arrangements worked as efficiently as possible.
M,. Rappard said Upper Silesian negotiations would furnish a further good occasion to get into touch with. German journalists.
Mr. Gilchrist drew attention to a historical note on the question of Minorities which had been drawn up by Mr. Rosting-, and which he thought would be most useful to anyone interes ed in the question. The Secretary-General said he had thought it a most valuable document and had sent it to two or three people in England.
M' , Cummings said the Information Section wore arranging for its use in the Press.
LEAGUE CF NATION3,
Communicated ta
Uhdor-Seoretarios General
and Directors.
11th. February, 1922.
Direotors' Minutes 36. Geneva,
MINUTES OF DIRECTORS’ MEETING HELL OH
FEBRUARY 6th. 1922.
Prosent:
Professor Attolioo Sir Herbert Ames Dr. Tan Hanoi M. Rappard II. Mantoux Mr. Gumma ngs Mr. Gilchrist Ir, Herman White Prof. Haleoki Mr. Lcveday
Mr. Walters (Secretary)
Signor Attolioo said he thought it best to continue the weekly meetings, though as far as he was concerned he had not muoh that was new to say. There was no news from the Secretary-General in London; there was also nothing new to report about the Genoa Conference. Everything, however, seemed to him to point to the possibility of it being postponed, an event which he personally would welcome.
Sir Herbert Ames, asked to give an account of the Hague Meeting, 3aid he had gone there at the Seoretary General’s request, in the place of Professor Attolioo who oould not go.
He had in the name of the Secretary-General called the first meeting to order, and, the judges all standing, had made a short statement to the effect that they were now legally constituted. On bis invitation, they then elected Ur. Lodor as Temporary Chairman, and then sat down without any ceremony or order of seniority. They then considered the question of calling the other Wo deputy judges.
Though legal opinion seemed against it, it was for some reason he did not follow, decided to send for them, and thereafter the meeting was adjourned till Friday. Of the two deputy-judges,
Mr. Wang was in Washington and Mr. Negulesoo could not arrive from Bukarost till the following Monday. However on Friday they went ahead without waiting for them.
The next business was the election of the President. After a first secret trial ballot which resulted as follows; Hr.Lodor 7,
M. Weiss 2, Mr. Finlay 1, Iir. Moore 1, they proceeded to the definitive ballot of which the result was Mr. loder 9, II. Weiss 2.
Mr. Hammarskjöld was elected Registrar by nearly unanimous
%
vote* Previously the Registrar’s salary had been fixed at 51.000 frs. (swiss) p.a. He (Sir Herbert Aries) had had to intervene to stop it being a good deal larger.
They then dealt with some small questions of which tho one which aroused the greatest interest was whether or not they should wear special robes. Opinion was divided, but ho had a strong improssion that those who opposed tho speoial robes were anxious that their opponents should be in the majority. The final vote fell to be given by Judge Moore who stated that he, personally, was indifferent but would vote for having robes.
There wa3 somo little indication whioh showed some tendency in the Court to break away from its parentage. When it was suggested to them that their notepaper should bo headed ’’league of Nations” as well as "permanent Court of International Justice” they decided to keep it as at present; and they rejected a draft of the oath to be taken at the inaugural meeting which contained a reference to their election by the Council and the Assembly of tho league. As against this tendency, the league held the power of the purse and he had seen to it that he received receipts from all tho judges for their January salaries and expenses .........
worded "Received from the Secretary-General of the League of Nations”. Our hank account at the Hague stood at present in the League’s name, to he drawn upon by joint signature of the Registrar and the Financial Director, but he did not think this could last and he had asked the Legal Section’s advice as to whether it would not be possible to arrange a monthly payment on which the Registrar and the President could draw.
The alterations in the building had been excellently done and the whole thing was very fine. The opening ceremonies would be grand.
31r. Gilchrist asked if it were true that the Hague Court of arbitration had a case pending Whereas the Permanent Court had none* Professor A3solico said the Permanent Court would soon have some; he thought Italy would have one to present to it shortly.
Dr, Van Hamel 3aid that in the draft rulea of procedure submitted to the judges, it was proposed that judgment should he given "in the name of the community of Nations".
This he, and others present, considered as serious, but it was not thought that the draft could possibly be adopted.
It was thought that perhaps the Sec ’etary-Generul and II. Bourgeois could discuss some of these points with the President of the Court before the inaugural session.
Ur. Loveday said that ho could not as yet give quite definite information about the meeting of the Economic and Financial Commission, it will probably bo, not on the 15th. February, but on the 2Cth or 22nd, It would ho either in Paris, London or Amsterdam, the last, in case 11. Term.eulen could mot get away. Sir Herbert Amos suggested it might he at the Hague, so as to be able to make use of the staff which was th er o.
Professor Attolico pointed out that it looked as though there would, be four meetings going on simultaneously.
-4-
viz. the Judges* meeting at the Hague, the His a nr. amen t Commission in Pari3, the Upper Silesian negotiations in Geneva, and the Economic and Financial Commission. He questioned whether it ms possible for the staff to oope with all the a e and its ordinary work at the same tir e«
Mr. Loveday said that the chief business of the Con-mission was the offer by Czocho-Slovakia to lend to Austria 500 million orowns, i.e. £2,300,000.- the loan to be made as part of the league scheme or should that fail to materialise, on special terms* Wo had as yet no certain knowledge of the attitude of other Governments tc this plan and for this reason it was perhaps undesirable to postpone the meeting. The Czechoslovak Government was planning to make a part of its loan available at once, which showed that they thought the situation was serious. A further reason against delay was that the Committee hud to make a report on Danzig finanoe3, and this report was already considerably overdue.
Professor Attolico pointed out a difference between the telegram received in the Secretariat from, the Austrian representative and the statement published in the Press about the terms of the Czecho-Slovak loan. Mr. loveday said as he understood it the second was the more correct.
Of the other items on the agenda, of the Commission, the Most irportant were the future of the Credit Bond Scheme, and the question of supplying export advisers to States who aaked for them.
Professor Attolico said the Disarmament Commission was planning to meet in Paris on the 20th. At that date neither MM. Sohanzer, Granting nor Tatzuke could be there, while M.Viviani would not bo present at all the meetings, and Mr. Fisher had been replaced by a new Member. Thu3 great activity and great results were not probable. The objects of the meeting would be rather
1)	to make a show of its existence immediately Washington was over*
.*s_
2)	To co-opt new Herbera; 3) to approve a plan of work.
In the circumstances, ho thought that a gr oat deal of publicity was not required.
5,	Dr. Norman vJhito said ho had not so far received news from Dr. Rajohman, Tho Soviet representatives would be in Warsaw on March 1st. to negotiate a Sanitary Convention. As regards the Mediterranean Commission, a cordial agreement to its visit had come from the High Commissioners in Constantinople and from the High Commissioners in Palestine and Syria, the last adding that ho took it for granted that tho Commission would confine itself to purely technical questions. He added that the French troops had now left Ilersina, and therefore ho could not reply to the question whether the Commission could visit that port. Mersina was, however, said Dr. Norman White, of minor importance.
The French Member of the Commission had been nominated,
Dr. Yiolle. Dr. Madsen had gone on to Cairo to make preliminary arrangements.
6,	Professor Attolico referred to the report circulated
by the Information Sootion as to co-operation with pro-league opinion in Germany. He thought the matter might be discussed again at a later date.
Ho reminded sections that their proposals for a 2o/25/b cut in their budget ought to reach the Financial Director on February 15th. Ho thought the matter of the very greatest importance.
Ho was circulating notices inviting the opinion of tho Sections; 1) as to the best plan for cutting down expenditure in printing; 2) for examining the question of distribution of documents.
Professor Rappard 3aid that the Geneva University wu3 making a special offer this year to enlarge its annual summer school for students from foreign Universities, The course would be on the
-6-
pronoh language and on International affairs. II. patio was going to the United States to try and maleo the course known to students there. He (professor Happard) had drafted a statement for circulation in various Universities saying amongst other things that it was hoped to arrange for some senior Members of the Secretariat to lecture on their special subjects, that the students would bo able to attend public mootings of Commissions eto. of the league. Ho asked whether any objection was seen to this. The meeting in general felt that there was
no objection
LEAGUE OP NATIONS.
No. 37
Distributed to U.S.G. and Directors
Confidential.
MINUTES Of DII-EOTORS MEETING HELD ON PEBRUAnf 15th, 1982.
PRESENT:
Professor Attolico
Mr . Colban
M. Mantoux
M. Rappard
Dr. Norman White
Mr . McKinnon Wood
Mr . Co amines
Mr. Halecki
M. Dufour
M. Denis
M. d’Honincthun,
Mr. Walters (Secretary)
------------oOo-------------
1.	Prof. Attolico said that as regards the Genoa Confer-
ence he had not any fresh definite information. The Secretary-General had written that he found the attitude in London towards the League in this connection much more favourable than he had expected. He had had some letters from Italy whioh indicated that feeling there was turning a good deal towards League participation. It appeared for instance that Signor Della Torretta who had opposed this proposal at Cannes was now in favour of it. Prom other sources he heard that it was coming to be generally felt that the Italian Government would make a serious mistake if it did not get the participation of the League as much as possible. The organiser of the Conference Senator Lomano Avezzana had telegraphed asking whether we could supply help in the matter of interpreters, translators, typists and stenographers. It seemed that the nearer the date came the more it was felt that they could not get on without our he lp.
~2~
2.	The inaugural session of the Permanent Court of Justice was talcing place that day. M. Bourgeois was unable to go, and M. da Cunha had therefore undertaken
to represent the Council at the meeting, and it was expected would make a powerful speech.
3.	As regards the Upper Silesian negotiations, he found a strong spirit of conciliation on both sides, but the material work would be so great that ho thought the Conference would hardly last much less than two months. It had been decided yesterday to discuss the actual text of the Convention in plenary meetings. This he thought was a hopeless decision which was bound to be reversed, but meanwhile it would lead
to much delay.
4.	As regards the Armaments Commission it was giving him a rather hard time, accusation being made against the Secretariat not, as he had thought might be the case, on the ground of not't having done enough, but on that of having done too much; he felt therefore that next week’s meeting may perhaps not altogether be a peaceful one. The Directors virou Id have seen the statements in the Press to tie effect that Messieurs Poincare and Viviani had had an interview to discuss the work of the Commission. He possessed no details of what was said, but it was clear that M. Viviani would preside for the meeting,a fact which, up till now, had been undertain.
Lord Esher had been definitely appointed as successor to Mr. fisher. It was uncertain who would be substitute for Signor Schanzer. Signor Maggiorino ferraris would unfortunately not be able to go.
5.	As regards the meeting of the Financial Committee, the Marquis Imperial! had telegraphed urging that it should take place in Geneva. He had replied that he would ask Sir Eric Drummond and M. Monnet te reply, but that he presumed the
reasons were
-3.
that a Committee of Financiers could be collected much more easily in London than anywhere else.
M. Pufour said that within the last few day3, Bulgaria had officially requested to Sir Drummond Fraser that the Texmeulen scheme might be applied to Bulgaria.;? This had been a complete surprise to the section. They had known that Sir Drummond Fraser had been in communication with one country in the Bast of Tkirope, but had not known which it was.
The Bulgarian Government asked for a loan of 4 million pounds sterling for use in railway, port and mining development. They had agreed to Sir Drummond Fraser's proposal that the Inter-Allied Commission, (viz. Bulgarian Section of the Reparations Commission) in Sofia should be a party to tho discussions and offered as security not only the products of the loan, but those of certain other State resources. His Seotion was of course very pleased at what had happened, and the fact that Bulgaria was not in great financial difficulties gave the whole matter a hopeful aspect.
Professor Attolico asked whether this was not really a political action with the intention of escaping from the obligations to which Bulgaria was hound under the ¡.treaty of Eeuilly•
Mr. McKinnon Wood pointed out that Hungary in a tentative approach on the same subject had nade it clear that she would regard as an essential condition the granting of relief in respect of reparations*
M . Dufour said that of course there was this possibility, although Bulgaria was in one respect better placed than Austria, since she owed only for reparations and not for relief credits. He had recently had a talk with the representative of Latvia who had said that his country ms financially strong enough to
lé-
do without tho Termeulon scheme. The same was true of Bulgaria, but for the Reparations situation.
The matter would be no doubt discussed at the forthcoming meeting. He did not know at all whether it would lead to the withdrawal of Sir Drummond Eraser rs resignation. Ho did not understand the latter's position and motives since he had been in correspondence with the Bulgarian Govern ment since Hovomber but had not informed the Economic Section Professor Attolic* pointed out the importance of letting all the Members of the Commission know in time of the likelihood that the matter would be discussed next week, since otherwise they might refuse to consider it, owing to having had no opportunity of consulting their Governments, or alternatively their work might be wasted through the Governments declining to accept the Committee's conclusions.
1.1. Dufour said he would forward copy of the Bulgarian letter the same day to all Members of the Commission and also to the Secretary-General and M. Monnet, drawing the attention of the two last named to the possible political aspects of the ease.
6*	Dr . Horman White said ho had no news from Warsaw, but
that Dr. Rajchman would be in Geneva ii’riday night.
7..	Professor Attclico said that he found that the Library
was not exchanging publications with the German Libraries; he thought that this ought to be altered forthwith.
8.	Fv- had been asked to say that translations had recently
been reaching the Drafting Committee which had not been made by the Translation Section and were of a very inferior quality, and to remind Sections that documents for circulation tc Council etc. should, in every ease, be sent for translation via the Secretary of the Drafting Committee.
5~
9.	M. Rappard said that he understood from a telegram from
Mr. Sweetser that the United States Government had not yet had « a reply from the Allied Powers to its note of September about Mandates. This was very serious since last year, the Assembly had shown great impatience about Mandates but had been tell that the responsibility for delay lay with Washington. If Mr. Sweetser's view wero true, this was no longer the case, and the Assembly would be sure to show great resentment. He asked Members of the Secretariat who could in any way influence the action of their Governments in the matter to do all they could.
10.	Ha had had a lang conversation with the Genian Consul in
Geneva, a strong'believer in the League and a man who would not ho in &his position, had he not been sent by his Government in , èrder to watch events here. He drew two general conclusions:
1)	fib propaganda in Germany was of any use unless the League made an impression of fairness.
2)	Tho Germans were in a nervou3 condition and wore on the look out for slights. It behoved us therefore to be specially careful in small matters where they were concerned.
'11*	M. Man toux said in Albania things were going well» The
Serbs had retired according to plan. On the Greek frontier a new neutral zone would bo created. On the whole frontier there seemed ho immediate danger of trouble. Our Commission would shortly be going to Scutari to meet the Delimitation Commission and would give it all possible assistance. It would then return. It had proposed the setting up of a Mixed Commission including Albanian and Serbian Officers to prevent frontier incidents after it had left. Both Governments had agreed. The Conference of -.mbassadors however had apparently expressed a contrary opinion. This hb thought might be due to misapprehension, and at any rate it had been formed before they knew that Serbia
-D
agreed* Ee had written privately to M. Gambon on the subject and hoped to see him shortly about it. Of course the decision in the matter lay solely with the Council which had instructed the Commission to submit plans for preventing future incidents.
12.	Professor Halecki sail that his Section had now compiled a list of names suggested for the Committee on Intellectual Go-operation. Copies were available and he would be glad of any suggestions.
13.	Mr . Oolban said there would shortly be an informal Conference with regard to the future policy of the oaar Governing Commission. The Administrative v.'ork of the Commission was now going on satisfactorily. It remained to carry out a better liaison with the population and this was of the greatest importance from the point of view of opinion everywhere. Ho had seen a draft on the sihject made by the Secretary of the Commission with which he was on the whole satisfied and he thought a public declaration on these lines would bo of great value. He would propose that at tho next Council meeting the Saar Rapporteur should make a public statement on the subject .
14.	The Minorities sub-Ccmmission of the Upper Silesian
negotiations had had a long meeting the day before. The differences between the two parties were wide. He had explained that there were good reasons ttr thinking that even if the guarantees proposed were more detailed than those in existing Minority Treaties, we should nevertheless count on the Council accepting them if "the text submitted had the agree-meEtoof both parties. He had of course made it clear that this was only a personal view.
There was a serious difference regarding the advisability of putting on paper any interpretation of the Minority olauses
even if both sides agreed to them. The Poles were afraid of bi riding themselves in respect of other parts of their territory. He had a solution to propose if M. Oalonder agreed to it. En general he was optimistic as to the outlook, bat the number of experts was much too big.
0O0
LEAGUE OF HA TI Olí S,
Ho,38,
DISTRIBUTED TO U.S.G AND DIRECTORS.
Geneva,
7th -ferch, 1922®
RI1ÍÜTES OF THE DIRECTORS' MEETING HELD OH MARCH 3rd, 1922.
PRESENT:
Secretary-General Dr .Nitobe Prof. Attolioo Sir Herbert Ames Dr. Van Hamel M. Rappard Dr o Ra j chman M. ife-ntoux Mr. loveday Mr. Gilchrist 1.1* Denis
Dame Rachel Crowdy
,Jr. Halters and Ur. Baker (Secretaries). 1
1, THE SECRETARY-GENERAL said that ho wished to draw attention to a slight tendency in certain sections to keep hack papers during his absence to be dealt with by him on his return. He deprecated this action. The Acting Secretary-General was fully in charge and it gave the Secretary-General on return an impossible amount of work to do«
2» The question of the date of the next Council meeting was very difficult. It was not fixed for April 25th, meanwhile the date of Genoa for which April 10th. was now suggested would be likely to be put off perhaps till the 18th. or the 25th. In the latter case the Council meeting probably must be changed to an earlier date, though it was difficult to have it much earlier. In any case we ought to have our agenda ready in case it was necessary to meet earlier. He therefore asked the sections to prepare at once a note of subjects for the agenda of the next Council meeting.
-2-
3.	In his visit to the Hague he had found the feeling of
the Court most satisfactory; there was no suggestion of disavowing connection with the League3 The Court was however, anxious that it should not he thought that their decisions could in any way he affected hy the political influence of the Council, and in this they were quite right«
There was now the question as to how expensos of the Court should he divided amongst Members of the League« They might perhaps suggest that their expenses should at once he based on the now scale«
4o As regards feelings in London, he had found no reason whatever for disquietude. As a result of a conversation with M, Benes, the Prime Minister had signed a note to the effect that the League should ho entrusted with the execution of all such ¡questions arising out of the Genoa Conference as it had dealt with up to the present or could properly deal with. This note had been taken hy M. Benes to M. Poincare and had probably been discussed at Boulogne♦
The Primo Minister had said to him in tho course of a long talk about the League that he was anxious to tie tho Genoe results up to it so long as this did not endanger the success of tho Conference« He had shown him confidentially the agenda drawn up hy the British Committee in which the whole cf the economic work arising from the Conference was proposed to he entrusted to the League. He did not know, however, exactly what the decision at Boulogne had been in this respect. The Genoa Agenda consisted of three parts ;
1)	Russia, (a), the political question including that of
de jure recognition and (h) the question of economic reconstruction*
2)	A guarantee of non-agression which it was hoped Gfirmany and Russia would both sign.
3)	General economic reconstruction of Europe, e.g. currency reform, the carrying out of the Barcelona and Porto Roso decisions
—O'"
and many other technical questions *
As to (la») It was difficult for us to take part, hut if certain conditions were imposed, the League might perhaps he charged to see that they weref fulfilled» If Russia were to he recognised de jure, it should he conditional on her applying for membership.
(lb.) There was an idea of forming an International Corporation with a huge capital. This might perhaps he linked up with the financial Committee.
2)	In any new Convention of non-aggression a clear reference should be made to the fact that the Members of the League ?/ho sign it have already given a comprehensive guarantee.
3)	The links with the League are already clear.
He wondered whether this programme oould possibly be undertaken and thought it quite likely that at Genoa they would only deal with Russia and the Guarantee and then have a further Conference on Reconstruction later. In such a case it might be possible to consider the reparations questions at the same 1 time.
M. Rappard asked what would be the situation if at Genoa some countries agreed to entrust the League with the economic business and others refused?
The Secretary-General said that he did not think that this case is likely £o arise.
B. The Secretary—General said that he had taken every opportunity in London of urging the importance of the admission of Germany. If Genoa resulted in the League being charged with the question of economic reconstruction, this would he : 1) an inducement to Germany to join; 2) an occasion to any Government who desired to do so to express a wish to seo Germany in the League. He hoped thereforo that the question would come up without difficulty, hut if not, the Secretariat must see that it did come up.
—4—
6o As regards the meeting of the financial Commission there seemed a difficulty about Austria» Tho three lending Governments all desired that the League should appoint An "adviser" to reside in Vienna; it seemed that the Austrian Government was opposed and had an idea which, ho understood, originated from a certain business group, that it would be oasier after the raising of the lions to raise money from business sources if the lenders wore free to appoint their own person in control» Tho newspapers reports seemod to show that this view was prevailing in the minds of the Austrian Governments» Ho thought however that they would not bo long in changing their view, since it was evidently easier for them to accept an Adviser appointed by tho Leagxio of which they are a Momber than a man appointed by business interests»
In the meantime they were getting tho loans from the throe Governments»
7» The financial position of the League was, he feared, no better than when discussed at their earlier meotingo Ho asked whother all plans £rom tho Sections regarding teduction of theii budgets had now been roceived»
SIR HERBERT AMES said that a number of sections had not yot sent in their reports» He would send a list of these to tho Socrotary-Genoral» He remarked that the application of a 207" cut would involve very different degrees of hardship as between difforont sections*
Tho SECRETARY—GB1IBRAL said that this had been fully understood, and that it had been decided that if a section found it impossible to make the cut It should explain this faot and tho roasons for it in its report»
PROFESSOR ATTOLICO said he had pointed out at tho previous discussion that a general 20^ cut would moan perhaps a 40/" cut
for some sections
PROFESSOR ATTOLICO gave a short account of the mooting
8 v
of tho Disarmament Commission« It had hold Plenary meetings on February 20th, and 23rd« the intorvening days doing occupied by sub—Commissions.	Tho mooting had boon at a most inconvenient
timo, but its date was conditioned by tho necossity of meeting after Washington and before Genoa» Tho meeting had not boen a vory easy one. It was deoidod not to co-opt six now Members by namo but to rofor this quostion again to the Council with an indication as to nationality* It was further decided not to draft a Treaty, but as the Assombly resolution referred to "a treaty or equally definito plan" this decision was not very soriousj In fact, Lord Eshor had got plaood on tho agenda of tho next session tho discussion of a definito plan submitted by him« This he considered in itself a success. A further important decision had been to ask the Council immediately to request all Governments to state their views as to the special exigencies of their national security. This request ho thought the Council must accopt and ho ccnsidored it a real step towards getting a grip on the roalitios of tho problem.
As regards the statistical enquiry, the Secretariat had been empowored, as ho had hoped would bo tho case, to carry on its onquiries. It was also instructed to continue its work regarding private manufacture. These two decisions had boor carried in the face of severe hostility. A further small point was that a resolution of the Commission specifically connoctod the consideration of tho uso of asphyxiating gases with tho general question of the laws of war, thus opening to some small extont the door to the possibility of tho general consideration of tho latter by some organ of the Longue.
■6-
9, ATLANTA.
II.	HANTOUX recapitulated the .present position in connection with the Commission of Enquiry in hi tenia . He expected that the Conforence of Liubassadors would, if asked, reverse the decision they had taken against the establishment of a Mixed Commission of Ce-Luian and Albanian officers to carry on the work of con-trolling frontier incidents.. Their original decision had only been taken as a result of a complete miounderstanding. The ambassadors believed that the Mixed Commissi on was intended as a substitute for the Commission of delimitation.
The Albanians have mads representations that it was desirable that the Commission of Enquiry should not leave before the new Mixed Comraission was established, but thstSecretary-General was of the opinion that there was no substance in their foars, and that the presence of the Allied Delimitation Commission would effectively prevent any incidents during the interval beforo tha establishment of tho Mixed Commission.
10 » VILHA,
With regard to Vilna, M. MANTOUX reported that the new authorities in Vilna were proceeding to arre,st everyone who does not share their political views, but they are being much more extreme even than the authorities in Warsaw wished. At the present tins the only thing the League could do is to exercise pressure for the protection of minorities, otherwise our responsibilities in the matters were at an end.
THE SHCRETAKY-GENERAL said that while it was quite true that tho Council’s resolution terminated our direct responsibility over tho matter, wo nevertheless kept a small link through tho duty of protecting minorities, which might perhaps be of use in the future. Ho further thought it of very great importance
that both Oolonel Chardi gny’s reports should be published, and he trusted the Council would take a decision to this of f ec t at its next me eting.
11.	COHTR1BUTIOHS 1x0.,. STATUS IGIIBER3.
THE SECRETAn Y-G EUSR¿1 suggested that possibly some pressure might be brought to bear on States which had not paid thoir contributions to the League, by refusing to allow them representation on any League Commissions. This might nor prove very effective but it was a suggestion worth considers ti on.
SIR HERBERT AMES reported that in the last week he had received three contributions from different Members, and that he now had money in hand for the next two months. Portugal had paid up in full and had promised to pay very shortly its 1928 contribution*. Three States have paid their contribution for 1922, their payments for 1921 being in arrears on the old bareme* He had been obliged to accept payment, but the obligations for 19 21 of course remained.
12.	HYUBOGRAPHIC BURAJi.
HR. HI TOPE reported that the United States had joined the Hydrographic Bureau in spite of the fact that the Bureau had placed itself under the auspices of the League of Rations.
This was of great significance in viau of the fact that a short time ago, the Hydrographic Bureau had been in great 'doubt as to whether it would not be more advantageous from thoir point of view to secure the adhesion of the United States by not coming under the League.
13.	HR UTTOBE further reported that he had now published his Handbook on International Bureaux, which included an account of 312 international institutions. He was aware that the
-8-
handbook was not quit6 complete, but he had been unable to secure details concerning some Bureaux in spite of the fact that he had written to them throe times ,
14.	WARSAW OONgERENCS ON EPIDEMICS.
DBo RAJCHMAN gave an account of the negotiations as a resul+ of which a Conference had be on called to meet in Warsaw on March 15th for the following purposes
(1)	To oonsidor the present very serious epidemic
situation.
(2)	To concert measures for checking a further spread
of epidomics.
(3)	To establish a sanitary zone on both sides of the
Russian frontier»
The form by which the Conference had been summoned was of some importance.
The President of tho Council had ’’invited1' the Polish
Government to summon the Conference under the auspices of the and
L^ague/had instructed the Secretary-General to place the services of the ¿secretariat at the entire disposal of the Polish Government. All European Governments had been invited to attend. It was an important precedent as it was the first Conference which had been summoned by one Government on behalf of tho League.
It had been decided that the Conference should oonsist exclusively of technical Government exports and that on no account should voluntary associations be represented.
DR. EAJCHMA.1T raised the question as to the transmission of the report of tho Warsaw Conference to the Conf rence at Genoa .
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL said that he presumed the report would first be communicated to the Council of the League, who would, in turn, transmit it to the Conference of Genoa.
BE. RAJCHi/WT said that he was not very »ell satisfied With the success of the attempts that had so far been made
-9-
to secure big Press publicity for the arssw Conference. He hoped that more might be done in getting goodncorrespondonts to attend«
TIG 3ECRETAj.aY- GENERAL raised the question as to the allocation of the expenses of tho Conforonco. As it vjas the first limited Conference hold under the auspices of the League, tho question was important as a precedent« In view of tho fact that only European States were invited to attend and that some non-Mombers were also attending, it did not seem clear that the expenses should bo put down to the ordinary Budget of the League. The Secretary-General ashed Sir Herbert Ames, j>r • Rajchraen, Dr. Yan Earned and M. Denys to constitute themselves into a special Committee to consider tho allocation of the expenses of tho Warsaw Conference, and also other similar questions, e.g«, the rate of allowance which should be made to members of tho staff attending.
It was agreed that it ms most desirable before tho Conference met to securd tho outstanding promised contributions to the Typhus fund if it were at all possible to do so. To this end, Dr« Van Hamel promised to make enquiry of tho Dutch Govornmont, and it was agroed that further enquiry should he mado in Baris concerning tho french contribution.
15.
DR. RAJCIR1AN reported that tho Russo-Polish .pidemics Conference was to moot to-morrow, and that «r. Nor wan White was attending by special semi-official request of tho soviet autnorities. It was hoped that a Convention would be rapidly agreed to.
16.
The Health ¿section was now publishing its Epidemic Bulltin bi-weekly in order to keep up interest in the epidemics situation. The information which they received showed very
10-
plearly that the position was getting rapidly worse every week. lest month they had heard that thero were 247 oases of oholera in Kieff. They are now informed that there are thousands of cases. The position on the left of the Dniester is so serious that the Roumanians have sealed their frontier hermetj eally »
The position in Poland was also getting rapidly worse, and even in western Poland epidemics were increasing.
17.	PURCHASE OP FUR.NITORE.
SIR HERBERT AilES raised the question as to whether £12Q0 worth of furniture should, he purchased in Vienna or in Switzerland, the oost to the League being identical. The Swiss tender was reduced by a £5^ rebate paid by the Government to the manufactuErs.
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL suggested that the proper course was first to invito tho tendering parties to make a further cut in their prices, and if they were not able to do so, to give half tho order to each cf them. The latter aotion was agreed on.
18,	ECONOMIES IN TRAVELLING .
Dx\. RAJCEMA.N had suggested that i . order to reduce the Budget of the League, we might endeavour to secure free railway passes from all States i.ombers of the LoaguA for members of the secretariat. He believod that this might be easily arranged.
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL oaid that in his view this proposal &nd better be brought forward after the termination of th@ Genoa Conference as we might then have much more chance of success.
In the meantime, we should press on the consideration of purchasing season ticket» to Paris for members of the Secretariat who are obliged to go there a good deal, and also the possibility of obtaining transferable passeaw which could be uged by any member of the Secretariat .
-11-
M. ATTQLICO agreed to send someone from the Transit Section to Paris to discuss this proposal with the Trench authori ti es.
19.	GENOA CONEU^ENCE.
8IE HERBERT AMES enquired whether members of the Secretariat were going to attend the Genoa Conference, and if so, who would pay their exoenses.
THE 3ECRETAivY-GEHEEAL said that so far as the unskilled staff which we might be able to lend the Genoa Conference was concerned, he thought the expenses of such staff might properly be charged to the League Budget, since we should only send such staff if we were able to do so without incurring extra expense here.
3IE HERBERT AMES thought it improbable that we should bo able to send anyone without taking en extra staff. We had had to take on extra staff for the Upper Silesia Conference and the Meetings of the Court, and we hare a very small margin.
20 . ECO 101,MG COMMISSI OH•
THE SECREIaKY-GMSRaTj reported that he had insisted on having the meeting of the Economic Commission in Geneva on March 15th.
ME. 10VEDAY said that he entirely agreed that tho Economic Commission should meet in Genova. It was much more difficult for the financial Commission to do so because the eminent financiers who composed it found it much easier to go to London than to come here.
MB. LOVEDAY reported that as he understood the decision , which had boon come to by the financial Commission, the Ter Meulen office was to be maintained in name only and the work was to be carried on by the Secretariat in a restricted
aanner.
-12-
TH3 3SCB3ri-i.lf-GBHSKA.Tj said that he understood that M. Leaeveu was to he kept on until the conclusion of the Genoa Conference, hut ho was not quite certain about the point.
21. BITSBRHI LEJUGBBS,,
hT-. BdlCEn gave an account of the proposal made by the British Government that tho High Commissi onor for Russian Refu nos should undertake the reseonsibilit.y for 4,600 rofugoes in return for a cash payment of £150,000.
Dr. Hanson had accepted this proposal, and hopod to he able to dispose of the rofugoes, and still have a balance in hand which ho could use for the rest of his refugee work.
eOo
LEAGUE OP NATIONS
CONFIDENT IAL.
listributed to Under-	No. 39.
Secretaries-General
md Directors.	Geneva,
March 10th, 1922.
|
MINUTES OP THE DIRECTORSr MEETING
I !|
HELD ON MARCH 8th, 192S.
40
PRESENT:
Mo Morinet Dr. Nit oho Signor Attolico Sir Herbert Ames Dr. Van Hamel M. Mantoux IT. Comert M. Rappard M. Colb an .
II. Rajchman
Dame Each el Crowdy
Mr. Walters and Mr. Baker (Secretaries)
1.	Dr» Rajohman said he had not yet received the details of the agenda of the Warsaw Conference nor official information as to the replies sent to the invitation of the Polish Government. England, Italy, Switzerland, Roumania were sending delegates. Spain could not decide during her Government crisis. He did not know about the other answers. ' Members of the Secretariat were leaving hero on the 15th.
2.	M. Comert said he would like to get a decision on the question
of advertisements. A note had been circulated to the Directors giving his proposal and stating that the Sccretary-General agreed with it. He explained that the voto fer tha Mpnthly Summary amounted only to 56,000 gold francs. The Summary was issued in six languages and this meant that it was only possible, at an expenditure of between 4 and 5,OCX) francs monthly, to print and distribute a very small number. Thus at present we printed 5,000 copies in English, 4,000 in French 3,000 in German, 1,600 in Spanish, 600 in Italian and 500 in Japanese. After careful considers ti on it had been decided to place the Summary cn sale, but even copies sold were sold at a loss and this therefore was not a remedy. .........
- 2 -
A fair number of subscriptions were being received, but owing to the necessity of reducing the previous free distribution far below what he would have wished, it was not possible to suppress free gifts, and we should have sales and free gifts side by side.
Again in countries where the exchange was low we were selling, for reasons of policy, at a very heavy loss» Thus the situation was that he had either to find a new source of income or to cut off the issue in one language, or to reduce the number of copies. He desired therefore to chooso the first course and to find in carefully controlled advertisements, the necessary increase of income to enable the Summary to be more widely distributed„
The proposal was to take only publishers1 advertisements, to aocept them for all copies whatever the language and to procure them through our selling agents in various contres to whom we v/ould give 30fo Commission on the price» Ho had discussed the matter with some technical people in Paris, who had received the suggestion very warmly.
In the discussion which followed, agreement to tho plan was at first expressed by most speakers. It was urged "on passant" that the Summary should bo if possible, a little altered in appearance to make it look rather loss administrative and that all its contents should actually he written by the Information Section in order that the various subjects might receive an attractive presentation and that a better sense of preparation might bo shown as regards the relative importance of the subjects dealt with.
M. Comert said he agreed with the different suggestions made, though he consid-ered that it was little more ntrJste,T than; e.g. the Saturday Review.
In reply tc a question of Dr. Van Hamel, M. Comert said that he realised that tho Secretariat was not equipped to deal with the technical difficulties of advertisement business. Through the plan proposed, however, he expected to be .»...........
3,
to be relieved of these difficulties, and no expenditure of any sort would he involved.
Sir Herbert Ares said he had always been, and was still opposed to the plan. He thought it undignified and did not expect much financial results. He hoped in any case that no expenditure would be undertaken on the strength of payments expected.
Monsieur Oomert agreed that nothing should be spent except money actually received.
■ Signor Attolico suggested that instead of using our selling agents, we might use e,g. Signor Bruccolcr.i and Mr. Hair, and thus receive the whole profit while having perhaps a stricter control of the advertisments.
M. Comert did not think this was praccicable.
Signor- Attolico further pointed ou^ that the price of the Summary in certain countries was much too low, even taking the exchange into consideration. II. Comers said that a revision would he mado.
In answer to a further question, II. Comert said that the proposal for exchange of advertisements had proved too difficult to work in practice.
Monsieur Mcnnet said he entirely disagreed with the proposal. The Monthly Summary, although wo did not regard it as being official, was so regarded by the Governments of nearly all Countries that received it; and not only so hut they thought of it as being the only official document which they read. If now wo changed its nature, for that was what the proposal came to, how would Governments understand it ? Again it would he impossible to settle what advertisements to accept and what to refuse. Suppose we advertised hpoks to which certain Governments had a strong objection, was not this certain to cause trouble? The introduction of advertisements could, he thought, >'nly he tolerated under two
conditions
conditions:
1)	That the question should be submitted to the competent Committee of the next Assembly, explaining the difficulty and;
2)	That we should frankly change tho form and appearanoe the Summary so as to make clear that it was not an official publication.
Sir Herbert Amos said that there was an item in tho budget of 18,000 franos for"publications for free distribution." He would bo prepared to recommend if nooossary to spend some of this on keeping up the Summary in its present form, and he would also be ready to support proposals that tho Council should authorise a transfer from other items in the budget for this purpose, for he regarded tho present Summary as a very good investment.
Signor Attolioo said he considered that he and others who had given a favourable opinion had done so in prinoiple and did not necessarily approve the details of Monsieur ComertTs proposal.
Ha pointed out that the Assembly did not criticise the I.1.0« for admitting advertisements in their publications. He hoped M. Comert would submit details to prove that we should keep a real control over the advertisements seleoted. Ho would get some copies of the Bulletin of the Italian Emigration service, whioh he knew aooepted advertisements and see how they did it.
M. Comert said that all papers kept the right to aooept or reboot advertisements. Jfo approval by the Assembly would remove the possibility of difficulties with individual Governments. If we admitted this obstacle, it meant the final rejection of any plan for advertising in League publications. If on the question of principle there was a clear objection to his proposal, he did not "think it worth while to work on it any more.
It was eventually agreed that M. Comert should:
1) mala a statement showing what financial results he anticipated;
2) should show what control he hoped to ho able to exercise.
3.	M. Rappard asked what was the fooling of the meeting as to whether the Secretariat 3hould write to the Mandatory powers asking "them for a statement of the situation as regards A. and B. .Mandates.
-5-
He understood that the question would come up at the next Council meeting, hut he had no information,
M. Mantoux remarked that he had recently talked with a man whose work lay in the Cam.eroons, who had said that the delay in deciding the subject was proving most disastrous.
M. Monnet said he saw no objection in writing in the way proposed. The matter must, however, be decided by the Secretary-General.
4.	THE GENOA CONFERENCE.
M, Mcnnet said that the position with regard to the Genoa Conference had been entirely changed since the Cannes Conference broke up0 It is now practically certain that, as a result of the agreements of the British and French Prime Ministers, any matters dealt with at Genoa which require subsequent action will be handed over io the league of Nations and its various organs to be dealt with. We have not yet obtained a precise engagement or written decision in this senso, but there is no doubt that it will shortly be obtained,
In reply to M, Rappard, M» Monnet said that he thought every expression of opinion to the effect that Conferences of the sort to be held at Genoa should be exceptional occurrences, and that the normal machinery of international co-operation should be. the Leas-ue oi Nations, was advantageous. He thought it would be very helpful if small Powers, such as Switzerland, wore to put forward this view to the Powers responsible for convoking the Genoa Conference.
He considered that if a definite decision to use the league, of the sort he had outlined above, were obtained before the Conference iret, it would be impossible not to allow the use of the personnel of the Secretariat for the organisation of the Conference.
- H
LEAGUE OP NATIONS,
r!
tributod to
^r-Soorotdries-Gonoral
No. 40
directors".
Geneva, 23rd March, 1923
Present:-
Mri COLBAN.
Sir Herbert AMES. M. MANTOUX.
Mra NIXON. Professor RAPPART Mr. CUMMINGS. Professor EALECIII Mr. McICINNON WOOD Mr. HUSTON.
Mr. WALTERS ) Mr. BAILER )
Secretaries
fl) Mr. COLBAN reported that the French Government had asked for an emergency meeting of the Council to discuss the Genoa Conference, and the British Government were equally anxious to have an urgent meeting to discuss questions connected with Russian Refugees and the T.M.C, The President had accordingly decided to call such a mooting for Friday and Saturday of this weak in Paris.
a private discussion on the Saar,
(2)	Vie had no information as to any proposals which would be laid before the Council in connection with tho Genoa Conference. Mr. COLBAN thought it clear that tho Secretary-General could not agree to send large numbers of our technical staff for tho reason
that we really had hardly any to spare. The only condition on which it could even he considered would be that tho cost of the substitutes whom wo should hxvo to engage should he met by the authoriti s responsible for the Genoa Conference.
Mr, COLBAN thought it also possible that there would he
Sir Herbert AMEi- said lio thought it would be necessary
for the Council to make a stipulation that the cost of such substitutes should be a d finite charge repayable by the Italian Government.
Mr. COL BAN further thought it would be necessary for the Council to agree that they ,rould hold a further meeting after the Genoa Conference, if the Conferenoo decided to lay any duties upon the League*
Sir Horbort AMES expressed the view that such a mooting should be held during the course of the Genoa Conference, in order that the Counoil might inform the Genoa Conference whether the League would accept the duties which it proposed before the Genoa Conforonce separated.
Professor F.APPAKD said that, in his viow, such a me -tin» should bo hold in Gonoa itself. The Council of the League consisted of ^representatives of the 3ame Governments that would bo represented in Genoa. Ho thought that these representativos should to called together and should moot from time to timo in conference a3 the Council of the League. They would thus in one way guide the course of the Conference and could take any decisions that were required on bohalf of tho League.
Tith regard to the staff, Mr. HUSTON supported what had boon said by Mr. COLBAN that it was almost impossible. to lend technical staff. Fhat wc could do would bo to offer to assist tho Italian Government in securing suitabl ; staff. rro could lmd them our list of applications. Y!o could oven lend them someone to help engage staff, if they wished, v'o could not lend them interpret rs because our Translating Section was being worked harder than over before, A groat many members of our technical services wore away on sick leave - quite a number of them owing to overwork.
-3-
Mr, 001.BAIT added that it might bo possible to lend some heads of services to organise the services at the Genoa Conference if the Italian Government wished it.
With regard to invitations addressed to individuals by the Italian Government, it was the view of the meeting that tho Secretary-General should not allow individuals to accept such invitations, but that if the Governments of tho countries to which such individual members of the Secretariat belong should ask him to second them for the service of the Conference, then ho would give tho matter favourable consideration.
VJith regard to responsible members of tho Secretariat who might attend the Genoa Conference, Hr. C01BA1T reported that the Secretary-General thought it quite probable that there would bo a number called upon to attend, for example, Mr. ITixon,
Mr. loveday, M. Dufour, M. Haas, and others. But such members of the Secretariat oould only go if they wont in tho same position of responsibility as they hold in relation to tho Council of tho League.
(3)	Mr. COLB/JT reported that it had been proposed by the Italian Government that the Financial, Economic and Transit Committees of the league should bo invited to send a certain number of Delegates, together with tho Secretariat of the corresponding Sections to the Genoa Conference,
Mr, HIXOh, however, pointed out that the members of these Committees in -fact represented their Governments; that they would also ho representing their Governments at Genoa; and that, therefore, if tho Committees were to bo represented separately, they would only bo represented by some of the other weaker members representing countries of smaller importance. It was, therefore, his view that it would be bettor to leave the diroot representation of the League Technical Organisations to the members of the
-4-
Socrotariat. The morahors of the Committees who wore also ropresenting thoir own Governments would, no doubt, assist the League and represent it in an unofficial, if not in an official, way,
(4)	Sir Herb ;rt AIIES pointer out th.it if the Genoa Conference decided to lay big duties on tho league, which would involve immediate expenditure, it must also malee financial provision which would enable tho League to carry out tho worn. Therefore, if tho representatives of the Secretariat who attended tho Genoa Conference saw
any such prospects, they should immediately inform tho Secretary-Gen ral ^nd should put forward a demand that tho Genoa Coni r^nc should d oido on a definite programme for providing tho necessary funds. Tho matter could not bo met by a vote at tho next Assembly, as tho Assembly could only vote money which would bo available for 1923. No doubt if the Conference d'cid^d to lay such duties on tho League, tho Principal Governments represented thoro would bo willing to make an advance ox funds which they could recover unir the Budget agre :d to by tho n-u t Assembly.
(5)	M. BAPJAP.D and M. I-h.NTOUN suggested that It would be good idea that the Council should actually moot at Genoa the chief Delegates of tho Council Powers, forming themselves, at it were, into a special Committee for the purpose. This plan was considered to have certain advantages since the Council ought to consider tie proposals of the Genoa Conference with, regard to the League before they were put into a final form. This was particularly necessary, SirHerbert fanes pointed out, in view of the possibility that these
proposals would Involve a certain amount of expenditure, provi-
f orm
sion for which in a per .'ectly definite form must/part of the arrangement accepted by the Council. These considerations, however, might lead to fluctuations in the date of the meeting of April 25th wl ich should bo an ordinary meeting at Geneva, and which would 1 :o
-o—
a very big and important agenda.
M. I'-irrQI'X said ti at even the 25tL vras much too lata from his point of view, ha had been very glad when it was proposed to advance the date to npril 3rd, especially for the Yilna question, further delay in which meant continual rish of bloods!.ed .
E. 001.Bid! said he too would have much preferred the 3rd for his questions, and Professor Ealecki pointe: out that there had been a good deal of criticism of the Council in January for putting off the ointment of the Committee of Intellectual Co-Operation. This Committee excited particular intersost in Germany and the United States, and in the circumstances it was clearly desirable to have as little further delay as possible in the matter. There was a general agreement that, if possible, an effort should be made in Paris to have an ordinary meeting on April 3rd in Geneva, while in any ca3o that ordinary meeting must not be postpone:1, beyond the 25th.
(6)	Hr. CQX3AIT said that it had proved desirable to ask all members who returned to the office after din . ;r to give their names to the night porter. This view was generally agreed to and it was decided to put up an office notice on the subject.
(7)	u-s regards the Saar, I! . Colb ¿n said it was no use entering into details. He thought the matter was developing on the right lines. It might possibly eome up for discussion at the Paris meeting.
Hr. HAPPAPD urged that it was wainst the interests of the League to announce from Paris any but a very satisf ictory solution o’ the trouble.
(8)	Fir Herbert ATf said that the ratification by the Governments of the ne'y scale of allocation was very important to us particularly of course t! > Council lumbers. He asked all members of the Secretariat who could exert any influence in the
— o-
matter to do all they could. The most important Governments wore those cf Franco and Italy whoso contributions were considerably raised; Great Britain had decided to ratify and we had loarnt unofficially that Japan and Belgium would do so.
(9)	M. RAPBjVP.D referred to the Committee which had been appointed in the Secretariat to deal with complaints of overcharges. It was true that their communications with M. Bret, who had been appointed by the Conseil d'Etat to receive complaints, had led to no result. Ho did not, however, think it would be wise on this ground to give up forwarding well-grounded complaints for the future.
flO) M. MMTOUX said the Albanian Commission had now returned and was drafting its report. They were very anxious that a representative of the League should be there on the spot to keep order in the country where the prestige of the League was tremendously high. Luring the last government crisis both sides had assured the Commission that their presence was the only safeguard against serious bloodshed. If we could assure internal order for a year or two by some moans, and at the same time set on foot a system of economic help to start the development of the country, this would perhaps allow Albania to settle down to a regime of law and order from which her neighbours had everything to gain,
(’ll) He had written a note on the problem of min.oriti s in Turkey. This note is being circulated in the Secretariat.
Mr, Co3ban said, he had read it and agreed with it entirely.
(12) Mr. HIX OH said the two chief questions dealt with by the Financial Commission had been Austria end the Ter Meulen Scheme. The latter was not dead, though nearly so. It had been brought to the knowledge of all business people and Governments and, what was very important, the Federal Reserve Board in their last bulletin expressed very strong commendation of the scheme.
-7-
Thus , although no actual business had yet boon done, it would very*likely come up again at Genoa«
Sir Drummond Fraser had finished his work and he thought that tho suggestion of Sir Herbert Amos that the Council should pas3 a rote of thanks to him would fit in very well with tho report of tho Financial Committee to the Council, which had been drafted.
As regards Austria, she had refused to co-operate as suggested with the Financial Commission in respect of the loans from tho British and Czecho-Slovakian Governments to which probably French and Italian credits would be added. Owing to their internal situation they would not co-operate as requested until the liens had been entirely raised. It was a mistake to
v
think that the United States had raised their liens. The bill was only through one Chamber of Congress, and after that pressure could be brought on Roumania through the Reparations Commission
(13) Ke wished to draw attention to the fact that if a certain number of people, whether Secretariat or Commission members, went to Genoa as ropresontatives of tho technical organisations they would bo compelled to call to some ertent on the central services.
There was a further question of how to put forward in the Press, should this ho necessary, some special League point of view which might be opposed to a policy which was strongly backed at tho Conference.
Mr. CUMMINGS said that if it was possible to do so, much the most effective method was to do this through the Press representatives at Genoa.
iEàGUE__OF__ NATIONS
30
Distributed to
TXTe r-S so r ÔTârTe s Gen or a 1
sncfDlrec tori'.
—
!
lïo.41.
Directors Meeting,
Geneva.
5th. April, 1922*
MINUTES CF DIRECTORS' MEETING HELD ON THURSDAY,30th.MARGE,1922.
PRESENT:
The Secratary General,
Signor Attolioo.
M, Man to toe,
Mr. Colban.
Professor Rappard.
Mr, Nixon.
Professor Halecki.
Mr, Me .Kinnon Wood,
Mr. Cummings.
Sir Herbert Amss.
Dame Rachel Crowdy.
nr. P.J, Baker	(Secretary).
1.
THE GENOA CONFERENCE - SUBSIDIARY SERVICES.
Tho SECRETARY-GENERAL said that he had received through
Professor Attolico from the Italian Government a request for a certain number of staff, including 4 Interpreters, 6 Translators, a number of Stenographers, and other members of the Secretariat personnel belonging to the Distribution, Precis Writers and other similar branches. The SECRET ARY-GENERAL thought that we should do everything in cur power to meet this request cn the following conditions :
(a)	that inhere tho members of the staff could bo lent without replacement, the Italian Government should pay all the costs of their travelling and subsistence allowances;
(b)	that where it was necessary for the efficiency of the Secretariat work to replace them, the Italian Government, in addition to paying travelling and subsistence allowances, should also pay for the cost to the league of replacement.
The SECRETARY GENERAL thought he would he justified in making such arrangoment3 since, luring the month for which tho Genoa Conference would probably last, there wa3 only one meeting in Geneva- that of the Opium Committee on April 19th.
As to the method of determining what members of the staff oould he spared, tho SECRETARY GENERAL proposed that Professor Attolico and Mr. Colhan should together consult the heads of each of the Departments, and in conjunction with them decide on each individual case. He thought that in view of the shortness of time before the Genoa Conference meets, their decisions should bs arrived at by Saturday, It would naturally he necessary for them to bear in mind that in taking their decisions they would make th•"■mselves responsible for leaving sufficient staff for carrying on the work of the Secretariat.
PROFESSOR ATTOLICO said that he thought there was a further condition which should he made, namely, that if there-were an emergency meeting of the Council or scmo other similar unforeseen '■vent, we should have the right of withdrawing our staff from the Genoa Conference in reasonable numbers, Subject to this, however, he though limit would ho good policy to send the tost persons we could find. If -to did so, they would probably bo male heads of various departments or services at tho Genoa Conference, and this would be considerably to the advantage of the League.
PROFESSOR RAPPARD agreed that if anyone were to he sent we should send the best persons available.
SIR HER3ERT /HIES expressed some anxiety as to this policy, and some fear that the Secretariat would be subjected to great strain. He was also anxious to know who was to he responsible for paying the travelling and subsistence allowances. 'Vas the Financial Director expected to make advances to members of the Secretariat who would go? PROFESSOR ATTOLICO replied that he thought the Finance Director would be called upon to make no advances of any sort.
■3-
The SECRETARY GENERAL expressed somo sun prise at the fact that the organisers of the Conference had sent some personal invitations to individual members of the Secretariat.
PROFESSOR ATTOXICO said that he thought the explanation of thi3 was that some members of the staff were so anxious to go that they had offered their services for nothing, and had promised to spend their leave from tho league working for the Conference«.
g„ GENOA CONFERENCE - TECHNICAL, SERVICE.
The SECRETARY GENERAL thought it would be wiser t) leave-over for discussion at the next Eirectors’ lieeting the question as to what members of the Technical Sections of the Secretariat should attend the Genoa Conference, and the rotation of these members to the various commissions of the Conference. He also thought it would be wiser to wait until after this discussion had taken place before warning the President of the 'Transit Commission that he might be wanted at Genoa.
3* GENOA CONFERENCE - GENERAL POLICY OF THE SECRETARIAT -
The SECRETARY GENERAL said that he had had some anxiety recently owing to the fact that it occurred to him that the members of the Secretariat wore inclined to take up rather too much the attitude of acting as representativos of their individual national Governments. He was afraid that if the members of the Secretariat got into the habit cf thinking of themselvos as reprosentatives of their Governments, this would., in course of time, undermine the whole basis on which tho Secretariat had been organised. He feared it might prove a disruptivo force of great importance. When he first accepted office as Secretary-General, the plan for the organisation <tf
\
the Secretariat which was then being considered was one based on tho principle of National Sections» This plan had definitely

"bfeon abandoned and the Secretariat organised on an international "basis for reasons which had then 3eemed of overwhelming foroo, and which he still thought of paramount importance.
The policy with regard to the Genoa Conference which he thought the Secretariat should adopt, and which all the members of the Secretariat should together work for, ought to combine features both of what was believed to be the policy of the French Government, and of what was believed to be the policy of Mr, Lloyd George. It was understood that the French Government proposed that all the continuation work of the Genoa Conference should be handed over to the League. Some people held, though he himself did not, that the purpose of the French Government in making this proposal was to oxoluds Germany and Russia from the organisation by which the continuation work was carried on. On the other hand, Mr, Lloyd George*s attituAo was still doubtful.
Probably he would not commit himself until the Conference had met and it was clear which way the wind was blowing, but it was at least probable that if he found that Germany and Russia were both hostile to the League he would side with them and propose the creation of a new international machinery for carrying on the continuation work. ’-That then should be the attitude of the Secretariat? Ee thought it could be sturmed up in tho following points:
fa) $hat the continuation wofk of the Genoa Conferenoo should be given to the organs of the Loague ox Nations;
(b) That Germany should be admitted to the League at the
next Assembly; and should therefore take part in this work as an equal member of the Leaguo;
fc) that in the interval until Germany is admitted to the
League, he should be represented on all the Committees and othor organs of the League which deal with tho Genoa work;
(d)	With regard to Russia, the position was more difficult, but he thought that if tho Genoa Conference ended in tho do ¿uro recognition of tho Russian Government, tho steps he proposed with regard to Germany shoull also apply with regard 'bo Russia,
5-
PROFE-SSOR A^TOLICO Wished it to be fefcofded in th» Minutes that he agreed with every 70rd of the SECRETARY GENERAL1S declaration with regard tfc the policy of the Secretariat On the Genoa Conference. Ho thought it of great importance that all th® members Of the Secretariat should hold together, and should do everything in their power to support this policy in complete unity. Ho believed this to be of the greater moment because he thought the Genoa Conference might prove to be of decisive importance to the whole future of the League.
MR. COLBAN enquired whether the SECRETARY GENERAL thought it would be a good thing for him to go to Berne to 3eo the Scandinavian Delegates( some of whom were his personal friends) cn their way to Genoa. The SECRETARY GENERAL thought it would be an excellent thing for Mr. Colban to do so.
PROCESSOR RAPPARP reported that he had discussed the Genoa Conference in Berne with M. Motta, and so far as he understood the general attitude of the Swiss Government, it was as follows:
They are interested in the various problems that will arise at Genoa in the follo’Ting order;-
First: Reconstruction, in connexion with which thoy considered Reparations to be of most importance;
Second; Russia and its political relation to Europe;
Third; The League.
Thoy viould like to make use of the League, but they do not want on any account to be mixed up in an Anglo-French conflict; moreover, they are afraid of the Secretariat being used as a tool by some national government, and for this reason PROFESSOR RAPPARD •wished to express his agreement with what the SECRETARY GENERAL had said regarding the international!ty of the Secretariat,
PROFESSOR RAPPARD further said that he thought the Swi3S Government had the question of the admission of Germany to th^
League continually in their minds. It had now become a question of internal politics in Switzerland, and the possibility of the
admission of Germany would greatly influence their attitude at
Genoa»
The SECRETARY GENERAL said he thought PROFESSOR RAPEhRD'S statement was a very important one. If many other small powers took the same view as that of the Swiss Government, he thought it would he a serious-matter for the League, He entirely agreed as to the desirability of Professor Rappard going with hr. Oolhan to Berne,
IS,	CUMMINGS drew attention to a statement which had been made in an Italian Newspaper by Signor Sohauzer, who had foreshadowed the holding of a number of future conferences of the same sort as the Genoa Conference. He thought this statement of considerable importance,
4.	TEE NEXT MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The SECRETARY GENERAL said that the date provisionally fir^d for the next Council was Hay 10th-12th, but he thought It might be possible to postpone the meeting of the Council until June, as in any case with the Assembly Resolutions there would have to be a Council Meeting in that month to consider the Budget for 1923, This could not be done in May for the reason that the Commission of Control will only meet on May 16th, On the other hand, it would be difficult to postpone the Meeting of the Council until Juno, because of the very important questions in connexion with the Court with which the Council must deal before the Court can take action on them. He thought, however, it would be wiser to say nothing for the present about the possibility of having to postpono the Council Meeting,
MR. COLB AIT requested that the date of the next Council Meeting should be circulated to all the Members of the League of Nations, as a great many of them would have to bo summoned to attend.
-7-
5j SAAR.
1TR. COLBA.N reported that the steps taken by the Council at Paris would, he hoped, place the government of the Saar Basin on as sound a basis as is possible. He had asked Herr.lewald to point out the real importance of the steps which the Council had taken, and he hoped that perhaps the German Government ’would now alter thoir attitude,
, In addition to establishing an Advisory Council, etc. in the Saar, the Council had also authorised the Secretariat to collect from the Ambassadors’ Conference and other sources, proofs which were required as to the identity of the people who would be entitled to take part in tho plebiscite in the Saar in 1935. Theso people were those persons who wore inhabitants of tho Saar Basin in «Tune IS 19.
3. POLISH MINORITIES,
MR. CO 1.3AN reported that M. Askenazy had promised to secure from, hia government the postponing of the expulsion of Germans in Western Poland till October. Meanwhilo, howevor, a telegram had been received by Mr, Colba.n’s Section reporting that some expulsions had already taken place. Mr, Colban thought these expulsions must he the result of a misunderstanding between Warsaw and the local authorities. In any case, he thought wo must seouro full redress for such expulsions, and also the execution cf tho delay which tho Polish Government had pror.isod, otherwise we should bo obliged immediately to publish the telegram which had been received concerning the Polish minorities. MR, C0L3..N said that ho proposed to go to Genoa to consult tho representatives of the Lithuanian and other Governments concerning their minorities.
7.	INTSILECTHAL CO-OPERATION.
PROFESSOR HALHCEI asked whether there were any possible means of getting a Commission nominated before the end of May in order that co-operation might be established between the League
^-/ysmmAssIan and idle International Aoademioal Union, which was to hold its Annual Meeting at the end of May» Ho enqulro! whothor mein tors of the Commission oould not he appointed hy oorrespondonco«^
After some discuss!in it was agreed that the matter was of the too great irportanoo to justify appointment hy correspondence, and the SECRETARY GEafERAL oonsidered that the werk of the Commission would necessarily extend ever next year, and that even if they had to present an interim report to the next Assembly, it was nevertheless important to have them properly appointed by the Oounoil after a full disoussion* He agreed with PROFESSOR HALBOKI, further, that it would be very useful if the members of the Secretariat oould discuss the matter fully with the Members cf the Council before its next meeting, in order that the Members of the Council might then be properly prepared t® deal with th© matter«
9, TRANSLATION OF DOCUMENTS CONCERNING OASES TO BE DEALT WITH BY aSTffig»
SAY MO,LliLKbB W90P enquired whether the Secretariat should be responsible for translating all the documents required for oasoe wi'vh whioh the Court would be called upon to deal« SIR HERBERT AMES thought that the GcUrt staff should be responsible for their own translations» It was, however, agreed that the So Unoil DQouments concerning such oases should be translated by the Secretariat.
IQ. aju::i of the league acgoib/ts. and budget.
SIR BERBER'!1 AMES reported that three officials af the Dutch Government are now oar-rying out an oxoeedingly thorough audit if JAe ao»cunts of the International Labour Offiae. E© might require to call on the assistance of heads of Departments in dealing*, with the enquiries made by these effioials when they came tU audit itho Secretariat accounts,
SIR HERBERT AMES referred onoe more to the importance jof scouring a special appropriation from the Governments r©pr0s^nte& at Genoa if tho Conference there decided to give the loague much tyork to oarry out.	'
He further asked the Sootions to lot him know as S)on a£
~9~
possible their budget requirements for next year,
I
MR. COLBAH said that in making up the estimate for his Section it was exceedingly difficult to know what sun he should ask for,It may be that as a result of the Turkish Treaty and tho Upper Silesian settlement, the work of his Section would very greatly extend, but ho could not know until these matter^ were settled»
SIR HERBERT AMES proposed that a speoial unappropriated reserve for such cases as this might be proposed to tho Assembly» Tho SECRETARY GENERAL did not believe, however, that either the Commission of Control or tho Assembly would agree to such an unappropriated reserve. He thought it would be wiser to get a special reserve appropriated to each Seotion which could not know for certain the extent of its work during 1923, and which night therefore be likely to require it.
PROFESSOR ATTOLICC said it would be wise to make claims for such contingent reserves as these as soon as possible, - in any case, some time before tho Assemblya
31
Or~ Ih "IK"'lip.
Distributed to	(Directors Ke^tinp)
Prider-o oc r e t ~r ios -Gor rad	ITo 42.
and Directors.
Geneva, /' ril 6th IE .
MIIJUTTM OP THE DI" DC^CIT1 LIE TING HOLD ON WEDNESDAY iTPII- £th. 1922.
PHD0 NT :
Score tary-Goner j.1 I\i. llonnot. Professor .xttolico Dr. ITitobé.
Sir Herbó r t on c 3 .
II. Oomert
M. Mantoux
M. P abo ard
Dr. Van Hamel
I.H . Nixon
ivii . L-ixcnris t,.
Mr. l"xltors	(fjeoret ,rv)
1.	The SECPHTHEY Glffim !■ said that since 1 rst woHMs discus sion on Genoa, the only events of importance hud been the s* »echos of M. Poincare and Mr. Lloyd George. These speeches contained nothing unexpecto9 . „nd policy laid dsv'n 1 st	must ho con-
sidered as uno 1' ang o d.
As regards the represent.¿.tion of the technical tiershe had decided to ..sk t].o 1 -.si tents f the T' molt linancial nd Economic Cormittecs to be ready to recced and to be in a position to consult thoir colleagues ten He was doing the sane thing as rip rods Drs. Chcdzho and V Thes - '-'ould very likely have to :'o, .s ror. .rda t> ; otlsr li.-elinood -rí-s less • Prora the ; ecret ni t would t-o 11,:. A
organisa-
and
te Cenoa
neeess rv Es on. s the 11 o 1 i c o ,
Ha j chican, Dixon .-.nd H.-as. On _ny oint of policy that arose e eh of the others would consult Professor ttolico, who would consult the Decretory General il necessary.
If tie Italian Government proposed it, he would see no objection to the Members or the .ecietari.t being its guests. Each member i,roul& return if „nd when it bee.me clo u tl at his su joct
77
S
done with
2. Tho Lee rotary Central s,*id tl ut a letter h ,d been receive^ from tho French ftovernmont st .ting that they could not
ask	tho Ch ambers to ratify the	amoudmont to ar	ti<
ing	a new scale, but that they	would si: for a	-r* » x Co
the	amendment which, sold that	the dssombly shci:	Id
s c a	lo.		
This decision would hove an unfortunate effect in coi tain countries, but if the latter amend merit wore ratified we could get a new Assembly decision for 1923.
Profe sor ATTChlCO said that re should t Is the o; or-tunity of letting all the countries understand the real situation. At present, for instance, in home it w.-,s very incom letoly understood. T o should h ero to ex- .lain that this ye *r7s contributions
must be on the	old	b ,3is .	
3. Tho ■■		T SY CSKT^AI.	further
published in tl	• O 1 '	.es ' that some	Canadi
forward tho idea of an economic Lucuuo of H -ticyis. He wished to remark that this was clearly a perfectly unofficial utterance.
4. II. HOKIOT s aid that
.3 re
tho prospects of i-onoi
he thought now that th
C I’O Wc1*3
rood chance that
estain amount
of technical work would fall to th
can
re and that thus, although
we could not hope that it would be the final turning point in the League's fo: tunes, it might be nevertheless a step forward towards its establishment cn a solid basis.
Picf. nTTCklCO said that he h id the iny re's ion there an effort would still be made to hold after C-enoa a "r’orld Dcono-nio Conference" at V*.¿shin? ton to include tie Unit. States, eouth America, etc. Such a proposal would bo put fo.y-Ard in per., ect good
f.-ith as rrpards the league, in the belief there was -till a ch anoo of Anorican co-operation; but it was a great danger for tt.Ioeguo, since the countries represented at ^cnoa might in consequince bo
-3
afraid of entrusting work to the League for fear it should keep the Unite" 2 Vitos out. The Seoiet.-j.ry General pointed cut that if it had this result, it would he through a misunderstanding, since there was no reason why the Learuo should net prepare the work which should form the basis of discussion a Comoience which might be called by any Government =jid not by the League. As an example, he quoted the work now being dene by the Economic Committee on unfair competition and on unification of laws dealing with hills of Exchange. Ur, Mixon explained that ...s regards the former, the Committee was arranging the preliminary "rork no cess uy for modifying the existing Convention on the subject, but that the Conference at which the new Convention would be adopted would be called by the Dutch Government, <,t the request of the Industrial Property bureau, at the beginning of 19 3, It was hoped t' us to get the United States to attend, us rewards the latter amain the Conference was to bo called by the butch government at the end of 1923 ox beginning of 1324c
K. MQNHET said that in his view the social preoccupation of Members of tho Secretariat at f-onoa should bo to try and foresee what decisions would be t^en as regards tho c ryin- out of the work which would follow the Conference ..nd to keep us informed as far	pos sible of all developments. He added that,
as rep..ids the United Static it was an absolute fallacy to imagine that they would do anything serious to help the economic situation
of Europe.
LI. RAPP ARP said that he was pr.oing to Borne the where he -would see the representatives of tho industrial Ee knew that their ¿-1 -ms were still in i fluid state, and would like to be su lie■ beforehand with answers to two 1) About tho United states with reference to the Iumno c out tho Gonea decisions. 2) about the position of Co many pnxticularly the attitude of France on tins point.
next day s t ■ tas .
sues tions: :,vvY±np v.nd
- 4 -
M. ::0IUt;;T said that as r a sards tho 2nd. point onoo the question were put 7'ranoe would Vote for Germany’s admission to the league and that if the question arose at Gonoa directly or indirectly Prance would he favourable.
ns regards the first question, it ’ms pointed out that as at Warsaw, the political side of a subsequent Conference could be left to a Government, but the league could contribute as nothing else could to the technical and administrative side. Dr. Van Famel called special attention to the precedent of ’’Pars w. Had toe louguo called the Conference, the Russians would never have come; in t‘e end both they and the Germans much approciatei the areat assistance given by the league.
PP.OPDg.iOR: -.TTOIIOO said ho had two minor _ oints to raise as regards Genoa: 1) be desired to have as com;,-lot o a documentation as possible as regards propos als of the allied Committoo in 3 end on. These II. Lonnet and hr. Nixon both hoped to receive privately without
h a d b con t n •. o n b T 11	:0	Tittle Entente
vere 1 iksly ilso to	h-o	h.ben by tl e
osc- "or o .vailablo ,	th	o r should be m
neutral ;t_.t es. If .my of available to the Horn tors of the . oretarict at Gonoa.
2) In apparent contradiction r,itl w.uat had teen settled at Boulogne, hr. I-loyd roorge, in Lie recent speech said th :.t Disarmament would be discussed at Gonoa. The P .ureter-/ Conoral said tl et he thoug.it that this suggestion had only born thrown out in a somewhat vague way in connection wit - the Pact of non-aggraSGim ’hich Iloyd George ho^ed would enable the Russian border states to vo-'1uce t -eir forces .
5
5.	DP, YAH BAIIEI said the 'rT.rsaw Conference had been a great success, chiefly owing to tie worl: of Dr., Raj oilman, both on tiie political and technical side. It had made the league more popular in Eastern Europe and brought it into friendly contact with the Russians and the Germans. He had been much struck with t ¿0 capacity of the Polish Government and thought it a good thing that we had gained closer touch with that Government. To the newly created States of Eastern Europe, the league was a much more real and inijortant thing then even to the neutrals amongst the old established States. As regards tue results of tie Conference, they would be found in the documents which had been circulated, In addition to
the formal agreements reached valuable work had heen done for encouraging unilateral sanitary Conventions and hr. P.ajchman had received satisfactory assurances ic^ardinp the sup- ly of information to his Office.
M. Comert said his erp o. ience in 'r arsav taught him that we had made a grave mistake in not visiting that capital personally sooner, lor two years we had h...d ELI sorts of dealings with the Polish Government and this was the first time a Member of the Secretariat had been in ' „rsaw. The same applied to many other countries, „mother lesson was that it would be very important for /(rur representatives at Genoa to be ablo to quote actual precedents I whenever the question of Ie-gue co-operation came up. He supuested that, a general note should he drawn up for their use and for that of Professor Rappard showing, the various methods in w] ioh the league /wormsa - by direct or indirect action.
6.	SIP, HERBERT AMES said t t Sir Robert Bor don Canada *n leading Statesman and resident of the C median league of Nations Union was shortly coming to Iausanne and would, he hoped, .av a visit to Geneva. On this occasion he homd to be able to resent to him a number of
6,
Members or the Secretariat,
7.	M%. C-IIChTXST s^id th X lie understood that the reason why no German bad been nominated to tiro 0. ium Commission, though oyer four months had elapsed since the invitation was sent, wyg that certain German Delegates considered that taey had been badly treated in Geneva. Ha ¿.remised to obt.in if possible authoritative information on this point which it was goner ally agreed was of great im. ortance.
8.	Ej stated that the Germ m Press in general had boon extremely hostile to too Saar Basin decree, but that the chief loc .¡.1 papier had adopted favourable tone.
9.	DR, T'TTTPD'fe said that the total expenditure foreseen for carrying out the dot .ilod reposals of' the Warsaw Conference had been estimated at £3,000,000 - (three million £) but Dr. Fo"man r‘hite
had told him ho thought it could bo covered by half th t sum,
10.	Fo had visited the Ioaguo of N tions Union Of icc in Berlin and Warsaw, both wore very feohlo, owing to lack of funds.
11.	One of tic lane a .1 i riacos of Japan was now in no nor a incognito, having cone specially to learn at first hand about the league. He would be in the Secretariat on the following day.
12.	He had been asked whether prominent student of International affairs, Mr. Dred S ith, could bo allowed to use a room in the Secretariat for giving a lecture. Fo trought personally t. t wo could hardly agree to the -oposal.
The Secretary General ...greed to this view, ^inco thourl in the Particular case wo mi 'Lt know about the lecturer _nd fo si perfectly confident as to what he would say, it might form an unfortunate precedent for the future.
13.	MR. NIXON asked what had socnod to be tie result invars aw of the : ilesian decision. Had it had a. rood effect corresponding to its bad exiuct in Berlin?
idle answer was in the nop-tivo, said Ti. Comert.
LEAGUE Of EAT IOIIS
E O . 4 ?' .
MiruTss or directors' meeting, 12.4.1922.
Present:
The Secretafy-Generel.
Dr. Kitobe.-Professor Rappard.
Sir Herbert Ames.
Mr. Abraham.
Lr . Uo r me n V.'h i t e .
M. Dufour.
Dame Re ohel Crowdy.
M, Aghnides.
K, Comert.
M. Colban.
Mr. McKinnon Hood.
Secretary: Mr. P.J. Baker.
1.	Genoa_Conference.
The Secretary-General reported that he had not yet received, any news from the Genoa Conference from which any general conclusions could be drawn. The main trend of the Conference seemed to be towards making the consideration of Russian problems, both economic and political, the ir.^in feature of its work.
As to what was likely to result from the point of view cf the League it would not be possible to say anything of value as yet. Mr. Lloyd George had matte a few references to future conferences of the same sort as the present one but the references were too vague to be of reel guiosnee.
The Secretary-General thought it would probably be necessary for *> few more members of the Seera t^riat to go to
Genoa In the course of a few days, when further news had Lean received from Signor Attolica.
2.	Upper Silesia.
The Secretary-General reparted that there had been a danger of a disagreement between the Polish rnd German delegates
o
•
over a question connected with the li-nidation of property in Upper Silesia. He still hoped, however, that an agreement might he reached ana he was sure that this would be very much in the interests of both the parties and of the League, and would greatly improve the prospects for the smooth working of the whole settlement. The meeting arranged for the 12th for the announcement of the agreement cr of the arbitration - if arbitration proved to be necessary- had been postponed, in the hope that ^ccord might be reached.
2. Russia .
M. Lufour said that the -economic Lection wished to collect information on the economic situation of Russia. They thought this might be of value in case any continuation work in connection with the reconstruction of Russia were given to them by the Genoa Conference.
The Seeretary-General remarked thrt he did not think anyone would have a legitimate grievance against the Economic Lection if they had not made v special study of Russia. At the same time he thought that the collection of information might be useful
After discussion it was agreed that the Economic Section should, collect information from h. Levorc-ak of Czecho-Slovekie, from Dr. Hansen’s nigh Commissariat for Russian Relief, and from a Russian orofessor of statistics at Geneva University with whom Professor Rsppard offered to put them in touch.
3.
4.	Payment of Contributions to the League.
Sir Herbert Ames reported that several payments of contributions had been made and that he had now sufficient money in hand for two or three months. The British Government had paid over a sum of more than 500,000 francs; Brazil had made a similar payment, and J':pan and Bulgaria had both discharged their liabilities up to date.
He enquired whether it would be wise to give publicity to this fortunate state of affairs.
M. Comert was against giving publicity as he thought it would lead the public to think that the payment of contributions was an abnormal and peculiarly gratifying event.
The Secretary-General suggested that it might be possible to prepare a new Council document for the next meeting of the Council, setting forth the payment that had been made and the general financial position of the League. It was agreed that such a document should be presented to each regular meeting of the Council.
5.	The ratification of the new barême.
Professor Rappard asked whet was the position created by the refusal of the French Government to ratify Article 6.
The Secretary-General replied that the French Note had been circulated to the Members of the League and that this Note explained that the French Government, although they were unable to ratify Article 6, hoped to get through a legislative sanction giving the Assembly power itself to fix the bsreme of contribution without subsequent parliamentary ratification. This would almost certainly have the effect of
4.
onst-ling the French delegates at tV: next A ssembiy to a.groo to the now b? rcmc, ■* rid thus to bring it into force for 11 £4 .
?r ofegcor ha pnard expressed the vie'*.- thrt too hrench parliament conic not thus tine itself in rdv nee to accept • ny hrrume to which thr; Assembly night cgreu.
^he Secret* ry-G--ne raj did not r greo with Professor BappTd * s view rnd hr ■honne t explained tint the purpose of the French Government was to avoid the discussion by the French Parliament of the method by which the bt:romc hod been arrived nt* They merely wanted to ho vo r' definite sum included in their budget re the French contribut ion to the League., and they believed that if such ° sum- could com- before the French Chambers ns pc:rt of their budget it would be voted automatically and without a iff iculty, whereas -s discussion on the bare mo might lead to great parliamentary complications.
6	.	17 ext 0 ounci 1 Meeting.
The Scoretary-Gener^1 reminded the directors that if they wished to put new items cn the Ag-nda for the next meeting cf the Council on Lay 12th, they should do so as seen as possible, and should inform ,ier Buxton.
I!. Leppard said th? t the A.rmeni'n Inlegation in Paris had asked for the text of the draft 7.h ob' tes for Syria,
Palestine and Kesopota mi a . This was e. rh‘"ps ar indie*' tion of their policy.
4s regards Genoa, he thought thr* t nr ny of the States represented were keen tfc®.t the: work should be entrusted to the League. At Borne both M. Motte and hr. Branting had shown themselves
5.
very strong: supportera of th» League. At the ssnu time they
felt it was ess	e nt i a	1 the t	the wor must bo	c'-'rr ied	out with
promptitude • : c.	e f f i	c iency	. The.; v ore very	doubtful	if the
Council and the	uiff	ere nt	C o mm i s s i o ns a. s a t	present	constituted
•••'or capable of	c . in	0 •	He thought that w	e ought	to concern
ourselves to fi	no a	for:: ul	a wh i ch iT; i gh t ma ke	the wa y	easier for
the Governments	who	c e s i r e	th at. the- League s	hould be	entrusted
wi th this work;	■ nd	fur the	r that it would he	well to	have the
question discussed in the Press.
if. Co loan said that he gathered from the papers that a Minority sub-Committee had been constituted in Genoa and asked that he might receive ell available information on the subject.
He thought it might be most unfortunate for the question to be discussed there without his being in Genoa, but he could not go until the Silesian negotiations were finished - say April 20th. Mi Comert said that he understood that the proposal to refer Minorities Questions to a sub-Committee of the Political Commission had been made by Hungary, but had teen rejected on the instance of U, Bones on the ground that these questions were only in the competence- of the League.
M. Comort said, the t in order to keep the Secretariat
informed about Genoa, he proposed to circulate, besides the
*
daily press reviews, on Genoa, a d' ily communique which will
be based on the available newspapers and show shortly the events of each dry. He would circulate a draft of the first issue of the communique ana if it were generally approved he would do it each dry.
The Monthly Summary had nor been entirely printed in ■Vienna and the saving was '•'bout 25^.
6.
A discussion followed regarding the possibility- of acceding to a request of the German league of Rations Union thf t as they could not afford to buy many foreign newspapers, they might receive s copy of our Laily Press review.
It was urged against agreeing to this, l) That in the past we had circulated the press review outside the Office and it had led to a serious complaint from one Government. 2) If it wore given to League of Rations Unions it would be difficult to refuse to give it to other people who ask, saying fpr instance they were Members of a Union which received it.
3)	For reasons of expense and time it w^s a very incomplete Review of the world's press, for it took practically no account of the press outside Europe. 4) A further re?son for incomplete ness was that press articles etc. which especially interested particular sections were sent complete to those sections and were only referred to briefly or not at all in the Review.. It was thus likely that a false idea as to the quality of the work of the Secretariat might be. formed since many of those who saw it would no doubt be acquainted with the very careful press reviews prepared in various Foreign Offices.-5) The fact that the press of different countries arrived at different dates and thet'therefore in any dispute the chances were that on any one dey the majority of the comments wore from one side, was bound sooner or later to lead to accusations being made that the choice of comments meant to favour one side or' the other.. It was urged that it would be quite possible to refuse the Review except to actual League of Rations Unions and then only to send to those who asked for it, and with a full explanation of the circumstances in which it was prepared and of its necessary limitations; a printed slip might even be
t
7 .
mi de to stick on o'ch copy so sent out, since they would he very limited in nunib- r. It ^eL>: »rod the t copies were already going to the League of lo tions Unions, without sny untoward result, F-nd the analogy was quoted of the Mandates Commission which received monthly r selection of articles and had never rrr do rny trouble about them.
The S c c r e t*~ r y G o ne r a 1 said that ho did not wish to put
the ouestion to the vote since although he was personally
in favour of giving out the Press Review under the most strict
limitations, he did not wish to over-rule the positive opinion
of the Director of the Section which rlone was really concerned,
lie asked M. Comcrt to study the possibility of meeting the
wishes of the German League of Nations Union in some other
way, perhaps through the central secretariat of the voluntary
Unions and it was agreed that Id. Comcrt should present a note
to the next meeting on the sub net.
*
hr. TTitobe said that curing his recent visit to the German League of Rations Union, he found that they mode very great use of their archives and were vt ry grate ful to the Secretariat for the documents they get.
K. Aghnidos said that of the r'uven new Members nominated by the Council to the Temper1 ry Commission, 1.1, Lebrun ana Lord Robert Cecil and L. Urrutla had rccepted. L. Ad or had declined and answers ha a not yet been received from MM. Nitti II. Ontoria
and Sapieha
LM.GUE OP NATIONS
*	32
Distributed to	No. 44.
Under-S ecre taries-General and Directors-.
Genera,
April 21st, 1922.
MINUTES CP DIRECTORS MEETING HELD Oil Wednesday, April 19th, 1922, at 3.30 p.m.
Present:
Secro tary-General Dr. Nitobe.
Sir Herbert .ores. Dr. van Horn el Dane Rachel Crowdy. Mr. Colban.
M. Dufour.
M. Rappard.
M. Pelt.
Me Bonnet.
Major Abraham.
Dr. Norman v/hite. Mr. Aghnides.
Mr . P.? * Waltors) Mr. ?.J, Baker. ) 1
Secretaries.
(1)	Genoa Conference and the League.
The Secretary-General said that he had received the minutes of several meetings of the representatives of the Secretariat in Genoa, and he had given instructions that these
minutes should be circulated to the Under-Sccretaries-Goneral
\
and Directors. He had asked, however, that they should be considered as very confidential and Tor this reason, he had not had them copied and distributed in the ordinary way.
He was afraid that the latest news from the'* Conference was not very encouraging. He considered that the incident over the Gorman-Russian Treaty might ro-act greatly to the detriment of the league. Before it occurred, the situation was so developing that he believed that Germany might have been admitted at tho next Assembly to the League., and also to tho Council - a condition
~ TJ
to which the German Government attach great import-mee * He was now doubtful whether this would after all be possible,
The incident had, however, another aspect. It had led to the exclusion of Germany from the Political Sub-C manissi on of the Conference, and he thought that this would prevent the continuation in the future of the Political Sub-Cornaission as a kind of extended Supremo Council, which some people had thought probable, and which would undoubtedly have been a danger had it actually occurred.
The Secretary .-General thought it might also have the good effect of removing from the minds of the Gormans the hope that the Genoa Conference would create a now international organisation, into which they might enter as an original Member and on a footing of equality. We shall now he able to say to the Germans that their only hope of regaining their position in international affairs is by corning into the league, which will bo the only permanent international organisation »
(2)	Technical Organisation of the Genoa Conference.
The Secret ary-General said that progress in connection with the Technical organisations up to the present nt the Genoa Conference had been satisfactory« II, Haas had boon officially admitted to the Transit Sub-Commission as an expert assessor, and LIr? Nixon had now been admitted to the Financial bub-Commission on the same footing« Moreover, the Secretary-General of the Conference had sent r.mnd an official notice to all the Delegations announcing that, in response to an invitation from the organising powers, the Council of the League had sent representatives of its various technical organisations to assist the Conference.
With regard to the Epidemics Commission, the situation was less satisfactory,hut the Secretary-General was certain that the question of Epidemics and the Report of the Warsaw Conference would come up in the Russian Commission when they got to the point of considering the reconstruction of Ru ss is. o
3
The representatives of the Secretariat now in Genoa ware anxious, that, in view of tho present situation, the staff should not ho increased, They had, therefore, suggested that Mr. Loveday should not come. Mr. Cummings had already left.
It was agreed that the method of conducting the Conference adopted hy the organising powers up to the present time, had had the effect of making the Neutrals angry, end the Secretary-General thought that this would re-act in our favour; although of course if the Conference resumed its normal course, the Neutrals might forget their present state of mind.
According to all reports, the Secretarial arrangements of the Conference wore not very good and there had Icon considerable confusion.
(3)	The Husso-German Treaty,
Dr. van Hamel said that he thought the Germans had made a great mistake in concluding this Treaty at tho presont moment.
Jle had had an opportunity of discussing it with Ecrr Lewald the day before, and Herr Jewald had defended it on two grounds* First that everyone knew that such a Treaty was about to be concluded, and that it was impossible that the British .Ambassador should net have informed Mr* Lloyd Goorgo of it; and second, that the pressure
of public opinion in Germany in favour of ti
y was very great.
The German public hoped that, as a result of tho Treaty, they would find a market for German manufactured goods in Russia.
Tho Secretary-General said that ho thought it possible that Mr. Lloyd George know of the Treaty, but had hoped that he would be able to bring the Gormans into lino with his policy, and that that was the reason why ho was so annoyed with their making a separate agreement in this way,
Mayor Abraham said that the most alarming aspect of the
4
matter seemed to him that it might divide Europe into two comps, one of which would he outside the league, Ho thought that if this result came about, it would be fatal for the future success of the League«
Dr. van Hamel said that in his view such a prediction was exaggerated. The present Treaty was not an alliance but merely an economic arrangement. The real difficulty with reg; rd to the
l
Treaty was that it stirred up now hostility between Germany and the Allies, and in this way had set bach progress in international affairs for at least six months.
4. Sir Herbert 'nos said that ho was sending out a memorandum, to Directors and Hoads of SDopartmcnts pointing out that at the time when the 1922 budget was drawn up it had been specifically stated that the division as between the different sections must not bo considered as final or binding because the fact that the Eoblemaire report had not boon received made this impossible, as did also the uncortaint regarding exchange. Wo wore bound by the general total but not by the individual totals. Some sectiorf/had indicated that they could do with a smaller amount and he proposed to re-adjust their individual total accordingly. He was circulating a note on the subject. He would bo very grateful if the Directors concerned could accept the new total proposed in his memorandum. he could just get through the year on the amount voted, but only just, because of the rate of exchange, the rise in which meant that a section which required all the staff for which it had budgeted needed 8$ me ro than appeared in the budget in order to pay it.
This of course applied only to salaries and t the central
services.
M. Rap par d said that up till now the " sub-Appointments Committee” had regarded it as tie ir duty to reject proposals for now appointments unless tho budget of the section concerned allowed for the now appointment. Was this Principle now to be abandon- d?
- 5 -
Dre ran Hanoi said ho had proposed consid er^blo reductions in his Section on the understanding that other sections wero doing tho samo. Ho wanted to bo assured that the sacrifices to which ho thus consented would not motoly have the effect of enabling other seotions to expand,,
Tho Seerotary--Genoral explained that the 20?' cut had all
along boon intended to apply to expenses exclusive of salaries, and
response
on this understanding the	to his appeal had boon generally
made and was happily fairly satisfactory. As re girds salaries, the understanding was that all sections must accept all sacrifices that wore possible, but certain Sections were forced to ask for more money than was allowed in their budget, rest because of expansion in the staff, but simply because of the exchange.
5* lame Bachol CrPWdy said that tho Opium Commission had met that morning; it had so far done little more than make amiable speeches, but a lively mooting might be expected. Sir Malcolm Dolevigne had been elocted Chairman. They would meet twice a day and the Session would last for about a week.
Prof. Eappard said that there were some slight developments as regards Armenia: l) He had had an interview with Agathon Bey which made it clear that some Armenians at least wore, a) certain that they required a Mandatory Power; b) resigned to having a much smaller territory than that delimited by President Wilson, in which owing to continual massacres they would now be in a minority. They wero however still convinced that Russian Armenia would not suffice for them.
In the second place there was a letter from the Armenians in .traerica repeating their declaration that they would find 25 million dollars and 5,000 men as soon as a Mandatory Power hod been appointed. This he thought, wo must immediately circulate to the Council. The Secretary-General said that he agreed the matter must be referred to the Council, but it was necessary to choose the best moment for do inf: so. That moment might well be after v/e had
6
( received, an official request from the Powers v/hicfc were negotiating the Greco-Turkish Treaty to take up the question of Armenia. So k far as ho understood, from Lord Curz on1 s speech the Armenians would bo dependent on what Turkey chose to give them in the way of territory, the latter not being bound beforehand in this question«
It was important that the Mandate and Political Sections should keep closely in touch in this question.
7.	Dr. ITitobd said the meeting of the Esperai.tists was now going on. They had asked that any Member of the Secretariat who liked should go in and hear how 22 nations could understand each other without interpretation«
8.	Mr. Co lb an said that there had been a meeting the previous day between M. Calender and the German and Polish Plenipotentiaries
at which final agreement had been secured on all outstanding questions, subject to details of drafting, Until these details wore agreed on we could not make any announcement, but the result was, he thought extraordinarily satisfactory.
9.	Dr. I! or non White said that the £50,000 promised hy the French Government for Typhus had now been received and a new lease of life was thereby given to the Epidemics Commission, This money was of course part of the contributions originally promised for typhus
in Poland and some of the Polish Ministers in Warsaw had not failed to remind him of this.
10.	Mr.Aghnides said as regards the Temporary Disarmament Commission no replies had yet been received from MM, Sapuha Nitti and Hontoria. As regards the agenda of its nest meeting Professor Attolico proposed that this should be l) the new situation created by the Genoa Conference; 2} the Esher and Seagraves1 proposals;
3)	a report on progress in Statistical questions.
LEAGUE OF NATIONS
•distributed tc Und er-Secretaries ,and Directors.
General
M I K U T E S
Directors Minutes
OF A BISECTORS1 MEETING HELD OF
1
APRIL 26th, 1922.
Present:-
SECRETARY-GEN EE AL
DR. FITORE
SIR HERBERT ALIAS
li.	CO;,LEFT
LJ. RAPPARL
DR. VAN HAMEL
li. DUFOUR
MR. GILCHRIST ME. AGEHIDE3 COLOREL HIAM 1:1. Dl.iv Io li. LiAHTOUX
MR. WALTERS	Secretary.
1. The SECRETARY-GENERAL saic that as regards the Genoa Conference he had not much to add to the news published in the press and that contained in the Minutes of the Secretariat meetings there, which were being circulated to the Sections. There seemed much uncertainty as to the length of the Conference. Professor Attolico predicted that it might last to the end of next vee£. It was much to be hoped th°t we could officially receive any resolutions which affect the League in time for them to be dealt with at the Council Meet ing on May 11th, and he had written to Professor Attolico asking him to keep this point in mind.
Speaking generally, it seemed likely that the main interest now would be transferred from Genoa to the reparation
2
question which must come t a head on Ley ¿1st. In other words, the Genoa Conference could hardly now he a real success, Some thought that this feet was good for the League. He personally felt quite otherwise and thought thrt the exacerbation of international feeling ccula only harm the League.
The Russian negotiations seemed to make little progress. The Conference might, hov ever, possibly seize or. the Harssw Conference resolutions r-s offering a non-contrcversiel field in which some practical result could he obtained. The fact that Dr. Forman hite had been telegraphed for on April 24th was perhaps a good sign.
The Credits Commission hac not yet begun to function. The Financial Committee had finished and its results were very small. It asked the League to undertake one rov, and very difficult question about controlling the flight of capital from countries of' highly fluctuating exchange.
In the Transport Committee II'. Attolico and Haas had achieved an excellent result by finding a formula accepted by both the Germans and the Russians, to the effect thrt future work arising out of the Genoa resolutions should be dealt with by the League Commission, to which German and Hussian experts should be added when questions effecting those countries were discussed. This formula, he thought, was better than we could have expected, r 1 though he agreed with ;vi. Comert tin t it left open the ouestion as to shorn the Commission should report.
He had no new authoritative information as to Germany’s entry into the League. evidently the German‘reoresent atives at Genoa were afraid of taking action. Both Herr irth and Eerr Hermes had stated that the;, were personally in favour of her entry but that public opinion was strongly against it.
The question, however, might come up in connection with the
- 3 -
"Pact of Non-Aggression" , which seemed to be the point upon which I.Ir* Lloyd George was now concentrating. To him it seemed clear that the best policy for the western Powers, in order to avoid a GernanetRussian block, was to take Germany into the League and into the Council. The wisdom of this seemed to him absolutely clear, but we could not be sure that the Pov/ers concerned would see it in the same light.
Ir/answer to a question, he said he thought that the Genoa events had lined up British public opinion almost unanimously behind Lloyd George, who was credited with having saved the Conference in face of groat difficultiesi
II. D11IIS said that as regards the Attolico-Haas transport formula, he thought that whether or not this was a success depended on how much work the Commission would have to do* Present information suggested that this would be insignificant. Tho little Entente were making difficulties with regard to the Porte Bose resolutions and it seemed that as regards railways a Conference was to he called by the French railway administration. The Secretary-General said this Conference,was, he thought, one of railway experts not representing their Govemments. He agreed that it was not at all clear how much woric in this field would fall on the Commission, but he thought that at any rate all work arising from Genoa would be included.
2 .	The Council is to meet on Hay 11th at Geneva. It
was much to he hoped and very probable that Genoa would finish before that date.
3.	Tho Assembly agenda had to go out in ten days. A
rough agenda had been drawn up which did not at present look very interesting, but no doubt important items would be added between now and September. He asked Sections to return at once the copies which would bo circulated to them, since II. Hymans1

4
approval had to to scoured "before it was sent out and the time was therefore short.
4.	II. HAFTOUX said he had had recently a certain number
of conversations in Paris in reyard to the Turkish Treaty. Since the League was definitely mentioned both in the covering letter drawn up by the Powers and in Loia Ourzon' s speech, wo ought to keep ourselves informed and he ready to offer observations when required,
4.(a). As regard Minorities, everyone agreed to the plan of a League Commissariat which should have the power of sending inspectors round in Asia Minor and ho met with general agreement when he suggested that this Commissariat should have some formal rights of Communication with the Croat Powers represented in Constantinople, which they could use in cases of emergency.
Evidently a necessary condition for the protection of minorities was the establishment of a proper gendarmerie system in Turkey.
There seemed a general agreement that the Turks would not accept a special gendarmerie in certain areas, hut that they might agree to having z. number of foreign officers so long as they were merely called instructors. nationalist fooling was stronger in Turkey than it had been before the war.
4. (b). The Arm on i an qu e s t i o n presented oven greater difficulties . The idea of an Armenian national homo was one which defied definition.
However, the -i.rmoni.ans it seemed would be satisfied with a modest area and ho was surprised to find that some people thought Turkey would he willing to give up in full sovereignty a certain region in order to escape the international difficulties hich the problem had caused her. we could not toil what would be the relations of such an Armenia with the present Soviet-Armenia, but it seemed inevitable that the two must eventually combine. He regarded it as important that the Turkish Treaty should contain very definite
declarations on the whole Armenian
question
- 5 -
4.	(c) « As regards general procedure, he thought it very important that the experts and the Powers should ho able to avail themselves of the advice of the Secretariat whenever thcro was a question of the longue or the Council. In Paris many people had agreed with this view, particularly II. Bourgeois and II. h .notaux.
If the preliminary conversations took place in the near East this would ho difficult, though not impossible, but it scorned quite likely that this plan would be abandoned and oven that they would take place in Switzerland. In this case the necessary co-oporaticn could pro/bably bo arranged without difficulty.
The fiECRETAP.Y-GEÏÏ3RAL said wo must ho very careful not to express any views as to the possible area to be turned into an Armenian national homo.
5.	II. RAPP ARP said that ho had still no information about whether the Council would ho able to deal with Mandates, oven with the Commission on the Eoly places. The Secretary-General said ho did not think we were likely to have such information until the correspond once with America had reached a conclusion.
G.	The SECRETARY-GEECRAB said that the Commission of Control
was to meet on May IGth. Ee had had a letter from Mr. Eedcrbragt with regard to the financial administration in the So ere tari?, t, which at first sight made somewhat violent criticisms, but which did not scorn really to be intended in this wayt He has asked the Sections concerned to supply answers to the various points raised in the letter, and asked that these answers night roach him without fail by the end of the present week.
LEAGUE OF NATIONS.
32
Di r tr_ibut eo to	ro . 46 .
Unoer-Socret^ries-	(Directors Minutes)
General & Directors.
II*
THE
MINUTES OF THE DIRECTORS SECRETARY GENERAL’S ROOM
MEETING HELD cii oe dn e sdo y 3rd.
Mr y 1922.
PRESENT: —
Secrets ry Gen er a1.
Sir Herbert Ames.
Mr. Colban.
Li. Comert.
Li. Mnntoux.
E. Rappard.
Dr. Van Hamel.
M. Duiour.
Mr. Halecfci.
L.	Aghnide s.
M.	Denis.
M. Baker and Mr. Walters (Secretaries).
1.	The Secreta-ry-Generr 1 said that one question of the
moment was the date of the forthcoming meeting of the Council. On April 22nd. last ,letters of convocation for May 11th. had been despatched. On the 29th. Li. Bourgeois telegraphed proposing postponement. The opinion of the President and a 11 Members of the Council had bee n asked by telegram, A c present the British Member had replied urging the retention of the date as fixed. The Italian Member had not answered and all other Members had stated that they had no objection to postponement. M, Hymans himself had expressed no definite opinion, but seemed somewhat in favour of keeping May 11th. He felt that there was some advantage to the League in holding a meeting here curing the Genoa Conference at which L. Bcurecis, Mr. Rr If vur and others would be present
and which would show that in spite of all the crisis there
on
exists one internatiorr 1 c rgan which c^n go/doing its business in s smooth and practical manner. There war the further consideration that no one knew when Genoa
2
would finish find although there wore certainly certain subjects
which could	be-	m ore e f f e i v e I y	dealt with ° f t e r	Genoa.
the balance	ef	a avantago seemed	to be in favour	o f the
existing fia	to #	M, Hymans would	pr Ob' bly decide	on the
following d	0 °	It was probable	that if he sent	a tele pram
summoning the Council to mc-et on May 11th, he would odd that it was very likely that ' further meeting would be necessary as soon as Genoa v s over.
hr. Col ban said that it v/r s most important to have the decision as toon rs possible because of the invited Governments, Strong delegations were coming from Warsaw and Danzig and represeniw-five s from the Baltic States, The latest information ms do him rather in favour of the earlier cu te ' t which he had hopes of settling finally the whole Question of the Baltic minorities. On the other hand Viscount Ishii would net be present at an cprly meeting and this might make the Danzig business a little mere difficult. Of course if the decision were not to alter the d? t e, it we less urgent that it should be ta ken fit once,
L. lwpparc ¡agreed. hk pointed out th-1 the 1^ter the decisions to postpone wore reached the more unfortunate - ore its effects. The question a I footed his section in a minor degree in the same way as Lr. Colbrn, since the Chairman of the- Mandates Commission hrd made arrangements to attend the meeting on the 11th.
he asked whether there would only be one meeting after this before the Assembly. If so, there was a growing risk that the next meeting of the Assembly would again find no progress, in the Mandates question. The Secretary Generrl srid the question of a later meeting would depend to some extent on the Genoa results. If circumstances required, he thought r. special meeting could be held for dealing wi th Mrnd*t e s.
rA
KJ
Sir Herbert Amos said there seemed to him to be *•: 6T:ngor cl Council mootings -rev, inm fewer cud fewer.
There vw s o strong foe ling rmongst sme 11 1.1 embers of the League that the Council did not moot often enough rno postponed its meetings toe often. The League should go ' hor d «¡nd do its own business.
2 .	The SMCKLT^RY- OKI; i-RAL so id thr-t he h‘‘ d circulated the
vs-r ions papers received from our people in Gencn. The letter wore r-t the present moment spying th-t. they thought thwt it. Mount, t rnd he ought to go to Go nos soon, since they hoc boon sent for technical questions end hr-d no mnnistc to
to	lio *	■'ny responsibilitie	*s in	political	questions which were
cr	iiy	b u c o m. i ng rnor o a nd	rnor e	importent.	Ho personally felt
th	et :	f o r t h i s v or re a s o	n it	y.t s bet t e r	for him <■ nd Monnet
awry. Their presence there could hove only s politic'-1 object end r ny opinions they put forward, th. ugh given entirely from the point of view of the Lerguc would suit one side butter thru f- uothu r snd in the present stst >. of feeling in Go no» this vo s almost certain to hrvo boa effect. Our present represent'*tiros on the other hi nd being there for technical purposes could with much less d* r.go.r cypress opinions rise oil p. litief 1 subjects.
in* rt from thu non-1-grc ssion .?- ct, the question which most troubled Prof. A.TTOLICO w.r r tho-t of c^rt* in
nt-	goti' tion	s which	SCi r:	:cd to be going	on r- : fording the
‘ Ü	mission c	f German	v- •	Be (th S.C.) :	or o nothing of these
n	go tintions, but h		e could not irw gin-		J ti.a-t they ' r of q
T -	r; serious ur turc		; ho	woo convinced	th* t it vw s much b* tt
to	• 1 v h* t - v, r the y		o'er ;	th.y should t-	- .O: p 1 •. c o v. 1 th out t h ?
Lerruiition of the
iï
door t riot.
(3)
WARS AW CONFERENCE
Tho S ocro tar y-Gen oral reported that Dr. Norman Vihite had drawn up a draft agreement between the Russian Government and the Epidemics Commission which ho had reason to bolicvo tho Soviet representatives in Genoa would aocept. Unfortunately, however, there were no signs that the Conference was likely to deal in the near future with the Report of tho Warsaw Conference.
The delay in this matter had been very annoying.
On the other hand, the Technical Committees of tho Conference seemed to havo finished their work. The general formula drawn up by the Transit Commission was very satisfactory from tho League point of view. Tho work of the Financial Commission soomed to consist merely of tho repetition of some of the resolutions agreed to by the Brussels Conference.
(4)	PROPAGANDA IN NEUTRAL AND OTHER SMALLER COUNTRIES.
Mr. Colban said that he had read with great interest a
paper prepared by M. Slavik, which had been circulated. Ho wished
strongly to support the proposal made in this paper that the
members of the Secretariat should do everything^ in their power
to initiate a campaign in favour of the league of Nations in tho
smaller countries and particularly in the countries which had been
neutral and in those belonging to the Small Entente. Ho thought
in this connection it was of particular importance that tho
Secretary-General should carry out tho plan of going to Belgrade
and Bucharest, and perhaps also that M. Monnet should go to Prague.
So far as the Scandinavian countries were concerned, ho thought the a
position was/strong one. All the political parties in Ncoeway, except the Communists, were definitely in favour of the League#
So far as Sweden was concerned, M. Branting was very far Durable and had even come to think well of the Secretariat. Although the Government and public opinion in Denmark seemed rather indifferent, ho considered that their attitude might easily be changed.
The Secretary-General quite agreed that it was highly desirable that members of tho Secretariat should do everything in their power to stimulate opinion in small countries in favour of the League. With regard to his journey to tho Balkan countries,
- 5 -
ho foresaw groat difficulty in fitting it in the near future. With the Genoa Conference still continuing and the Council Hooting either in tho middle or at the end of the month., there was no prospect of his being able to leave before June. On June 1st, the marriage of the Xing of Serbia was to take place, and ho was. informed that ..ftor that, everyone of importance world leave Belgrade for the summer holidays. Ho did not, therefore, sou how such a journey as was anticipated could bo fitted in before the moo tong of tho Assembly.
M. Denis and II. Coraert both thought it was of great importance that the journey should be carried out before tho meeting of the Assembly. II. Comort suggested that the Secretary-General
might go in tho first half of June rd that a certain number of important people might be asked to make arr angemonts to stay in Belgrade and Bucharest for the Socreta zy-General Ts visit. In this way, the Secretary-General should be able to see the Ministers of Foreign Affairs and a number of other members ox the Governments.
M. Rappard and Dr. van Hamel both expressed agreement with this view. Dr. van Hamel thought that the Secretary-General should go to Romo on his way out and to Belgrade or. his way back. The Secretary-General agreed to keep the first three weeks of June free for this purpose in coco it should prove to bo poss' blc.
(5 )	THE EWAT'gl CCHHITTES.
II. Doris said that a difficulty Hod arisen in connection with the mooting of the Heal th Committee in Paris or. Hay 11th. It was necessary that Dr. najchmnn should attend the mooting but at the same time it was not very probable that tho Genoa Coni’"r rco would have dealt with tho Warsaw Report by that date, and if they had not done so, it would be difficult for Dr. Rajchrnan to 1 Genoa.
II. Denis undertook to consult Dr. Rajchr.iann by t 1 gr j as to what course it was host to pursue.
(6)	XIAISOIT BBT\/E3T INFORMATION AND OTEEh SECTIONS.
II. Comort said ho was v
cry
anotions to establish offoctire
liaison between the Information and the other Sections of tho Secretariat. The Information Section held freciucnt mootings
among its members, and ha understood that tho other Sections did the same. Ho thought it would. ho useful if memhors of his Section attended such meetings of other sections,.
In reply to an enquiry from Sir Herbert Amos, M. Conorb
that
said/he thought it would bo bettor that his Section should not ho represented at tho mootings of the Commission of Control, He thought thoso meetings should be private.
(7)	BUDGET.
Sir Herbert .woes pointed out to the Directors that tho budget for nor.t year had boon dr awn up on an absolutely rock-bottom basis and that it would not bo possible to introduce any further economies of any sort. He thought it imoortant that Directors should make this quite clear to the Commission of Control. In his view, the Secretariat turned out twice as much work as any other Government office with tho nano personnel with which he was acquainted.
Ho further pointed out to Directors that tho whole appropriation for salaries had boon allotted for this year and that, therefore', ho did not think it would be possible to add any further members to any Section until 1923.
Hr. Colban said that unless he were able to add another member to his Section he holiovod that they would not be able to get through tho work which cane to them in connection with Minorities t He thought that by July at tho latest it would be absolutely essential for him to have more help.
Tho Secrctayy-Gonere 1 enquired vAiother Mr. Colban could not pay the salary of an additional assist'iiit from the appropriation "New Services." He thought it would he possible for Mr. C lb an to appoint some one who should be called ’'Secret; ry to tho Council Commission on Minorities/' and to draw his salary from this vote.
Sir Herbert Ames agreed that that might be possible, but pointed out that the total amount voted fur "How Services” was 84,000 francs, and that half of this sum had been appropriated already.
7
Kt3 thought it ¡possible , hov.’eve-r, thrt. there might bo r w rgin. in some of the other "Special Services of the League” ie,.g. economic Section) which erm into the pome Chapter of the Budget as the Linorities Section..
(8)	MEMTES.
Professor Ho ppr rd said that- he had received two Reports c-n mandated territories, one concerning the Island of Ivr.uru, the other concerning Srmea. The one concerning Fauru was up to December 17, 1920 only, timt is to say, up to the osteon which the Council confirmed the Ids net'’ten. The Secretary-General said that ho did not think this fact should be taken to mean that the British Government would not send in a further annual report concerning I’auru for the year 1921.
He felt quite confident th't such a report would shortly bo received.
( 9 ) ADDEESSHS OF Kid?3 oRS OP COEETSSIOHS.
s.
IE., Rapps rd referred to/prepos*" 1 which he hr a ny do a considerable time ago, that the addresses at which Members of Hu;- gue Commissions exiting in Geneva, were staying should bo circulated to Sections in order that Directors and others might get in touch with *ny members of such Commissions with whom they might bo requeinte-d. He thought in this way valuable opportunities for propaganda might be secured,
Although his proposal had been agreed to some time rgo, no steps had boon taken to c'~rry it cut.
After some discussion, it 'ws agreed thc t every Section responsible for the work of any Commission which might be meeting in Gcn=vr should be -sked to inform the Establishment Officer in advance of the nr m.es of the members of the Commission who were expected to attend, ’ no the t the
8
Hstrblishraent Officer should then b: responsible for circulating those nrmes and the addresses at which the members were staying to the Sections,
M, hopp'-rd reported that he h* d recently been in a pert of Germsn Switzerland where he found opinion quite favourable to the League. They were not in r ny wry disappointed with the achievements of the League up to the pr sent time, rs they hod not in any erse expected th? t the Lergue would do anything of value for rt least 100 ye"rs.
j
LEAGUE OE I A II 0 H S
39
stributed to Under-oretari^s-General & Dir actors.
Ho. 47,
(Directors1 Minutes},

LE V A,
MINUTES OF THE DIRECTORS1 JESTING HE ID IN THE SECRETARY-GENERAL'S ROOM on Wednesday loth May, 1922.
PRESENT:	SECRETARY-GENERAL
M. Monnet Ar. Nit obe Sir Herbert Arnes M. Comert Mr. Oolban Mt Rappard M. Mantoux M. Dufour
Dame Rachel Crowdy M. Aghnides LI. McHinnon Wood Mr. Hi&m
Mr. Baker
Mr. Walters (Secretary)
1.	THE SECRETARY GENERAL said that at the Council meeting the next day he proposed to begin by giving the Council the whole agenda drawn up, not as a time table which hardly proved feasible, but in the order in which questions might be taken. On the agenda suggestions had been made as to which questions should bo taken in public ana he hoped the Council would accept these. In reply to a question by Sir Herbert Ames, the oecretary-General said it -would be Major BUZTOIi:Is business to keep sections in touch with the question coming up at the meeting of the/Jouncil* Hs thought the meeting would last perhaps till ednesday evening.
Mr. GOIÆAXJ said, that it was very important that
Members should be kept together long enough to be able to achieve a just settlement of all the Danzig questions. He vtss in the course of long conversations with the Polish and Danzig represent-
i
atives, and had good, hope of reaching such a settlement. It vas therefore important that the Council should,not, in the hope of getting sway a day or two earlier, leave thèse important matters ur decided,
M, . RAPP ARP said he, also, had reason to hope that the Council meeting would not be too short. It was possible that Mandates questions on which some Members would have to telegraph for instructions would be discussed and these might not be received unless the Council meeting continues a day or two longer than was anticipated.
E. THE SECRETARY-GDI-InRAL said that the Council would probably not have time to examine the budget and would therefore have no alternative but to authorise us to circulate it with the comments of the Commission of Control and adding a reservation that the Council Members representatives at the Assembly would be as free as other representatives to propose changes.
As regards the Commission of Control, he felt clear that they had no power to a Iter the budget and that if it was impossible to reach an agreement the Assembly must decide.
SIR HSR BEET AMIES said that Dr. UEDFRBRAST seemed inclined to propose reductions on every item. He, however, was sure that as regards internal services, it was already cut as close as we could possibly manage, while the various organisations having special budgets drew them up with the approval of their own Commissions, etc. He hoped therefore that the Commission of
Control would be more sympathetic than hr. IŒDSKBRAGT, since the opinion expressed by the whole Commission would of course carry great weight. We must remember that we could only count on collecting ÿO or 80$ of the total and therefore if reductions were made we should h - ve to reduce very much the work done.
THE SBCxRSTABY-OBiiEBAL said we had been as economical
as possible in our proposais and that we therefore had no choice
but to defend every item as well as we could. He intended ta
is
attend so far as/po3sible the whole of the meetings of the Commission from beginning to end. He added that on the analogy of the Other League Commissions it was to be presumed that the report to the Assembly would be made by the President.
M. HAiTTOUZ: remarked that a comparison of the Commissions sent by the League and by the Conference of Ambassadors respectively showed that the expenses of the League Commission were approximately one-tenth of those of the other.
3.	' uiscussion followed with regard to the possibility
of the appointment to the Pool of a dactylographe capable of
writing Czech and German as well as Trench. It was argued on the
one hand that being required by several sections, it was right to
*
place this stenographer in the Pool and that to divide her salary between different sections would lead to a good deal o f work of a book-keeping nature. On the other hand it was urged that the Pool consists of French and English stenographers and copyists and that it was administratively impossible to add to it people whose work could not be properly superintended by the head, and that
-4-
if
to
MM
Ozeoh and German steno^r&phens were added ure should also have add to it Italian, Spanish and so on. It was decided that
Gozne rt,
Go roan and Hap,
uld decide the nr.1 ter t
4 o
oo'uld not te
r>
SIT HnRBGRT /I irculated no re
33 asked whether the rapidly through the
Genoa reports different sections.
50 TBH srOHhlARY-'FRWErAL said that referring to the discussion at the last meeting as to his taking a journey to Belgrade and elsewhere, he had talked the matter over with Mr, Yovanovitoh, and he was very anxious that he should go.
He v/as however very much afraid that the condition of his leg, unless impossible for him
mproved rapidly, would make it quite
to do soo
!
S
LEAGUS
HATIONS.
tributed ti Under-
retaries--General and_ eet or s,
IJIHUTr,. C i?
VEDS
Directors' Minutes 48
.JOTOi.o ' Li. MAY 24th,
ET li: G HELD OH 1922.
PRE3LHT:	Secretary-General
' ...... Professor ttolico
Sir Herbert mes II. i. i an to ax He Rappard Dr, Fajoilman Hr. ,-ixon Hr c 3v. ee tser Dame Rachel Crowdy Hr. Ear ad a
Mr. alters & Hr-. Baker (Secretaries)
1.	The SECRET. DRY-GEHHKAli said that on the whole the
Commission of Control had not he thought in spite of a very difficult beginning reached conclusions that would hurt us. Speaking generally, the budget would,he hoped, in form approved by the Commission go throw h the Assembly without great diiiiculty, but there had been some indie tions that the technical organisations might at the Assembly have to light rather hard for their budgets.
Sir James -lien - whose opinion was probably typical of thht of many countries at a distance from Europe -took up ‘the position that his Government was willing to pay its share in organisations which could show definite results, but not otherwise.
The SECRLTD.EY-Gii'iEL.lL therefore while feeling happy about the Transit and Ke*alth organisations was a little less so as regards the Economic and financial Committee, for in this field results were difficult tc show simply because they were so desperately difficult to obtain.
(a)	Administratively some decisions would have to be taken at once as a result of the Commission. , e had definitely accepted the proposal of a continuous
2.
internal audit by a Member of the Secretariat. Cn Tuesday, the Commission had discussed the questica pf a continuous external audit; he had pointed out that this was really an exaggeration, and it was decided at the last minute to adjourn the question.
(b)	As regards the statute, we had promised to harmonise in some respects the statutes of the Secretariat and the I.L.O# on the basis that in no oase should the staff be more generously treated than in the best treated civil service. .‘.s to overtime the Commission would recommend to the Assembly that this should be payable over 4.C hours a week in respect of every hour more than 42.
(c)	He had promised the Commission that in future it should be laid down that Under secretaries General and Directors should only travel on a written authorisation from the oecretary-Oeneral and Members of oections cn a written authorisation from the Head of the ejection, dir Herbert Ames pointed out that Directors sometimes left it uncertain when absent who was acting Director.
It was agreed that oection should inform the financial Director at once who was to be regarded as noting Head in the absence of the Head of the section, and that
if the second .'.'ember was absent at the same time as the Director special indication should be given to the financial .-irector stating who was to be regarded as Acting bead.
(d)	On the subject of an internal control, Professor APT01ICO said that che internal auditor of the secretariat should depend from the .>ecretary General, otherwise, the situation would be intolerable. He suggested that this auditor should mate a report every three months to the Gecretary-Gencral and that these reports should be
3
submitted to the Commission of Control at their annual meeting. the SSCibLTASY GXJSIiilali thought this a ‘very good idea, but would be inclined to circulate the trimestrial reports to the Members of the
Commission as recc	
(e)	As regards e;:
said	that the pres
us, though it was pretty clear that the audit could only be undertaken by a .European Government. He agreed with Prof. ATfCLICO that it would be for the auditor to choose whether he would come iour times for a week at a time or once for a month. The former arrangements where convenient would be tho best plan.
The SECRETARY GENERAL said the Assembly would now be on us in little over three months.
The special meeting of the Council was provisionally fixed tor not later than July 15th. It might very probably not actually begin till the 17th. as the 15th was a Saturday.
M. I-cITA-E) said that if the outstanding questions about, Mandates were not settled by then, he feared the meeting would not take place: if they were it would be a perfunctory affair. The SECIiLTAEY GENERAL said he was not sure that he agreed; the question had been put o±f in May: (a) to give the french Government the chance to finish its negotiations with the United States; (b) to enable the french and British Governments to complete their negotiations on B. Mandates. The Members of the Council were pledged to attend the meeting, and, he thought, would certainly not fail to come.
ID. C011--'II ashed whether other questions would also be taken. He himself honed to be travelling on
4,
League "business at that time. The .SECRETARY GENERAL said he did not know, but if the meeting were anywhere other than Geneva it would be a very expensive business.
In any oase Mr. Colban's questions could he thought be put off till the meeting just before the Assemky Mr. COLBAN said that he thought this would be better as there was more chance of really definite action at that time, particularly as regards minorities.
M. RnEPARD said he felt that the more questions there were to discuss the more certain it was that the meeting would take place. If Mandates only were on the agenda he feared proposals to postpone.
Prof. Al’TOLICO said that he thought it absolutely essential that the Genoa results sh ould be discussed a good time before the assembly meeting and these should therefore be on the July agenda, so that the Council could make definite and agreed proposals to the Assembly with regard to the execution oi the new tasks imposed upon the League.
M. MAN TO UX said as regards his section there would not be much to lay before the Council meeting in Julj/. There may be the question of the Hungarian frontiers.
He understood that it would be proposed that the Council would not meet in Geneva; he doubted whether this could be justified, especially since the date had been fixed tv/o months beforehand and therefore special circumstances could hardly be invoked. The SECRETARY GENERAL said he hoped very much that the meeting place would be Geneva.
As regards the Hungarian frontier question this was a matter as to which, in accordance with the Marquis Imperiali’s resolution the documents would have to be circulated at least five days in advance ox the meeting.
(4) Results of the Genoa Conierenco*
l.ir Hinon said	tha t	tho economic and P	n nci.'.l	Co mitt ee
would consider the ta	o! *■ c	iven to the league	b tho	Genoa
Conference at their n	e.ct	.eeting* He did no	t think,	however,
that they would have	the	complete rogramme	re- dg fo	r the iie::t
meet in.-: of the Council* They would only complete their progra- irae for oept e fber *
Professor Attolico thought that nevertheless there should he . discussion of overj tush referred to the league by the G-enoa Conference by the Council .t its newt meeting. Such a
discussion need only he provisional, the subjects being deierre for further consideration at a subsequent meeting*
The becretary-C-eneral said tha.t in - ny ce.se the course advocated by Professor Attolico must he followed as the Council had already decided that thoy would consider the results of the Genoa Conference at their neut session.
a
(5) Pate of Next Council meeting•
Professor Aappard urged that July 15th would be the right
date for the next mooting of the Council, and that he did not believe that anything would happen be two on July 15 th .nd August 1st in Washington which would really cane a postponement of a fortnight of any value from the mint of view of the work to be dono in connection with Mandates. He urged that August 1st would be a bad date, because the mandates Commission would be meeting at that time, ..nd he thought it most desirable not t«
allow the meetings of the mandates Commission .and the Council to clash •	?or this reason he thought that oven August 15th
would be a bettor date for tho Council th:.n August 1st.
Tiie 3LC3ulMAEY GRifenAl expressed the view that it was desirable to have two more meetings of the Council before the assembly, one on July 15th and another perhaps 10 days before the .assembly begins.
(6)	Monthly „urcmary.
MB. o'.EI'l'oEB reported that the Information Section wore preparing a statement on the Genoa Conference and its relation to the league for the next number of the Monthly Nummary.
(7)	Epidemics in .ussia.
DR. BAJCHMaN reported that the situation in Russia was even more serious than the Epidemics Commissioners had anticipated that it would be. In the first three months of 1922 there had been recorded by the Health Authorities 500,000 ca^es of typhus and 497,000 of relapsing fever. Judging by previous experience it was safe to assume, on the basis of these recorded figures, that the actual number of cases which had occurred was at least 3,000.000 - 4,000,000.
Pith regard to cholera, the situation had also developed for the worse. Cholera was spreading to other parts of hussia besides the Ukraine, and so far there had been recorded outside the Ukraine 3,300 cases. He had had a report brought from Moscow by a medical man who had left there on May 10th. At that time cholera was appearing in the Moscow district although not in the city itself. A .dentists' Conference, which had been held at the beginning of May in Moscow,haft decided that the situation was at least threatening. ihe next two months would decide whether or not there was to be a very widespread epidemic and cholera.
7
In the meantime the predicted danger irom the spread of epidemics through repatriation to Poland had not yet been realised, as the spring had been so very late this year.
(8)	The tenon Gonference and the arsaw Report.
DR. EAJCIU.Liii reported that the Genoa Resolutions on the subject of the barsaw Report constituted a valuable endorsement of principle, but they had not yet resulted in the securing oi money• If it had not been for the support of the British and balgian delegations, the formula of the Resolution which was agreed to might have been much weaker.
DR. BAJCHMAiJ emphasised tho importance of securing money soon for the reason that there are only 4 months during which effective work can be done before next winter sets in in Russia.
It was true that we had no1./ received the French contribution of £50,000. This, however, had been definitely allocated for work in Poland. The Epidemics Commissioners had agreed with the Polish Government shat this money should be used for that part of the V.arsaw programme which related to defensive work in polend. Generally speaking, ,^r. Rajchman thought we should have difficulties in getting contributions, but he hoped that 3 or 4 Governments would make them before very long. For the future he thought we must depend on the big business enterprises which are hoping to carry out large development schemes in Russia, and which would, therefore, have a direct interest in Russian sanitation. He thought it not at all impossible that the Epidémies Commission should be asked to manage the funds which these business enterprises might wish to use for this purpose.
c
8.
(9)	-f ho Geetin , cl the Health Committee.
DB. BAJCHlvLi'l made a statement on the meeting of the Health Committee in laris.
In the first'place the Committee h'ad agreed that • *
they should always hereafter meet at Geneva and not in xaris. „..hey had been partly moved to this conclusion
i
by the invitation ox the French ministry of health that they should meet in the Ministry. hile they had much appreciated this invitation, it had rather embarrassed them, as they felt that it would not leave them the complete liberty v/hich they needed.
1ith regard to the ' arsav Conference, the Health Committee had had a certain feeling that they should have been consulted before the Conference was decided on.
But even ir George Buchanan, who was the chief exponent of this view, agreed that the circumstances in which the Conference had been called, were quite exceptional.
The general results of the Committee might be suitnarised as follows
(a)	The work of the Health Section up to the present time had b«en formally approved.
(b)	There had been considerable discussion on the subject of the collection and publication of epidemiological information. wir G. Buchanan had been a strong supporter of leaving this part of the work to the Office Internationale and had brought up the matter
in controversial form. His proposal had been that in the new sanitary Convention which is now being prepared, and which is to be agreed to by a new sanitary Conference to be summoned by the French Government, a provision should be inserted that all the ,-arties should agree to the rapid and systematic exchange of epidemicLogieal information through the medium of the Office Internationale.
9
/*•
V
The ngw Sanitary Conference cannot ;.,eet for at X e as t G o r b nontnsy anX in the meantime Dr.	Cix nan
hopes that he nay he able to secure the signature of several hi-lateral Canitsry Conventions of the sort concluded between Russia and Poland at './arsaw. In each of these Conventions
there will he a provision that conies of all epidemiological information exchanged by the Parties shall be sent to the Health Section of the league.
The Health Committee had finally agreed to a Resolution to the effect that the Health Section should continue the work in this department which it had done up to the present time, but that so far as possible its work should relate to definite fixed programmes, such &s typhus, influenza, etc* Every member of the Committee, except Sir 1. Buchanan, had agreed that a new expert epidemiological and vital statistician should be added to the Health Section.
Sir C. Buchanan had further brought to the attention of the Health Committee the Report of the Sanitary Commission which had investigated conditions in the mediterranean. This had led to the adoption by the Committee of a Resolution urging that the Council of the me- .rue should
press for the early calling of the proposed sanitary Conference. ..s this .-.©solution was prat forward by the
President of the office International that it would lot lead to any undeeirR even some hope that the Conference mi
e, -xr . R.a j c jmu n t h p ug ht hie results. There was gilt be c lied under the
auspices of the league.
(c)	'with regard to the plan proposed by hr. .ajehnan for the exchange of medical officers, the Italian, owiss and Belgian Health Authorities had, through their representatives on the Committee, expressed their enthusiastic support of the proposals. The - rench Government hud expressed their i opposition before the Committee met, but hr. Ranchman thoughtj their opposition had bo n overcome. The Committee, including
10
air George Buchanan, had agree«?, to the organisation oi a iirst experimental exchange oi nodical oiiicers, but had postponed any decision ca the gen ral oc.ic :ic until this experiment had been carried through .aid the results determined.
(d)	Ironic -.1 Diseases in ¿íric v.	. ith regard to Dr.
Rajcliman1 s proposals for the study oi tropical diseases in Africa, he bed been obliged to re. ort to the 'jealth Committee that uni or tuna t oly sleeping sickness is spreading, and that, the measures t< .ken ag.ainot it arc only just catching up in efficiency those mieh had bo n taken before the v.ar.
Hie Committee had agreed that it v;as desirable tirt a tub-Committee, consisting of rcprosontatives of Great Britain, ■ ranee and Belgium (i.o. ir eorge Buchanan, Monsieur Calmc-tte ‘.rid non si or Volghc) should be established to study the matter in conjunction with their respective Colonial Cxiices, and to report to the next meeting of the Health Committee. A hey had also agreed Umt they should consult pith the Mandates Commission and should generally ork in collaboration with them, but they had not -..lshed to put this into the Resolution they had adopted on the mattor.
Hie SECRBlAiil GrXGihJi pointed out that as the efficiency of anything recommended by such a committee would depend on the administrative measures taken in Africa to carry it out, .„nd as administration in mandated areas
•MV ¿f	N
was subject to the supervision of the Mandates Commission, it was most important to secure the co-operation of the Mandates Commission.
DR. EnJCHiAAi replied that the nib-Committee would h...vc the advantage oi the assistance oi experts from the three Colonial Offices, and that their report would
11
then go to the Council. It mould cover . 11 Colonial territories nncl not only mend,.,ted crones. ...ho Council
might then recommend that, so far 'as mandated areas sore
concerned, the Lnndatos Commission might he consul ted IhOhJoSOI; RAi Ùüïiiï said that he see c.rt.ein difficulties in the method of the cub-Committee which ■proposed, but he did not wish to press his point.
■(10)* Composition oi the health Committee.
■¿Li riAJCHIhJi said that the present members of the Health Committee did not realise that ¿heir mandate v., ,s purely temporary, and that it mould terninaoo on unust 14th. jurthci , he -./as not at all satisfied that the present system of nomination vac ’a satisfactory one.
It. anas difficult to say . hot her the members aero really Governmciit representntives or whether they acted in ..their •personal capacity, as they wore supposed to do. ror example, he was very doubtful whether hr f-Gorge Buchanan really represented the British Government or neat. On the other hand he ’./as satisfied that Calmette did represent the rrench Government, and th,.t ho received
his	instructions f:	cm the french -orcig	n oilice, \	./hi eh
w cts	not -a very sati	s f ac tory j leui. Ho	thought it	. ou.ld
be	botter il, when	the final scheme mas	dram u,.,	the
members of the Committee wore definitely representatives of their Governments.
( 11 ) Russian .’vC xu cos.
«
. Lin. o hihahlt drew the attention oi the dr actors once, -more to the importance of securing the £¿0,000 required-' for Constantinople, .aid, laid emphasis on the gr cat politic„1 importance of collator noiny aith the American holier ssociniion, which it u/-iv ..rsally
1?.
regarded in the United .tntes as the principal national organisation aeroad.
(1C) Hooting of league of Rations societies at nvgiic.
MR. COLBAil said dint it had been suggested that ho should attend the meeting of the !c iguc of rations Societies at 1rogue during tunot but H. Comert and Professor Attolico had thought this a bad plan.
The SilCRbinRi G. RURAL said Mi at he thought tho ca.se would be mot if hollo. Mac si-., ill attended the Conference as an observer.
MR. COimi said that he rue arranging to visit ¿rwguo after the meeting of the league of Rations „ocioties, perhaps with lion si our ; onnet, )■;. Comort and l.[. bonis, after ■..hich they might proceed to nr saw .
It was agreed that this was a good plan.
The 3UCRAl.uA Ghi.'IhUiX said that ho wished to take this opportunity of oppressing his groat gratitude to hr. Ranchman, II. Haas and .,r. lixon for the work which they had done on boliali of the leohuic.-.l Organisation of the .'league in dene a.
He also felt that a great debt of gratitude was duo from every member of the secretariat to frof'ossor nttolioo for the way in which he had looked after the interests of the league at Genoa. He thought no one could have done this with such skill and ability.
At the same time lie expressed his gratitude to Mr.
S. oetscr for what he had done during tho winter in the United /bates. he thought that the change of opinion which could be observed in tho United atate G ».TClG very largely Mr. n. oetscr’s work.
41
¡ORD IDEE T IA L
LEAGUE OP HAT IOUS
Distributed to
Under Secretaries-Genersl
and Directors.
Directors Meeting 49, Geneva .
rj / r /c-\ O 0/0/
OP THE DIRECTORS’ MEETING
HELD OR JUNE 1st, 1922.
PRESENT:	Secretary General
Professor Attolico Dr Hitole M. Mantoux M. Comort Dr. Van Hanoi Dr. Rajch.rn.ann Dane Rachel Crowdy LI. Dufour Mr Gilchrist LI. Bonnet
Mr ’Valters and Mr Baker (Secretaries)
1.	The SECRETARY GERERAI said that there was no development as to the date of the Council and the 15th or 17th therefore presumably held good. He was going to London the following week and he hoped to learn there something more definite as to the real intentions of the British Government which was the one which had asked for the meeting. On the understanding that any subjects which are fully ready to be taken at that meeting should he so taken, ha asked that all relative Council documents might he prepared and circulated as soon as possible, so that there would he no difficulty about placing on the agenda the questions to which they referred.
Disarmament Commission.
He was proposing to M. Viviani,
■2-
at Professor Attolico's suggestion, that this Commission should meet on June 26th. It was true this was a little after the month referred to by the Council, but this could not be helped.
3.	A number of reports on the Genoa Conference from Messrs Hixon, Haas and Cunnings es well as a general iotter from Prof. Attolieo had been circulated to B.S.G. and Birectors. These reports, particularly the Inst raised many questions of deep importance for the league. The meeting being a small one and Prof. Attolieo's letter having only just been circulated, it might be as well to postpone discussion till the following week.
Professor Attolieo agreed, and suggested that all the Members the Secretariat who had been at Genoa should attend the meeting.
4.	The SECRETARY GENERAL said ho had no further news about the Hague Conference. M. Patijn, a Dutch Delegate at Genoa, had asked that wo should supply some staff to assist in the Secretarial work, but in view of the Lumber of Commissions etc. which wo should have on hand, this was totally impossible.
5.	DR, 1TIT03E said that 8 members, including M. Bergson end Professor Enstein, had accepted the invitation to join the Committee on Intellectual co-operation. He had not yet had replies from the others, mainly owing to postal doiay, though he understood that
Mme Curie was hesitating for fear too much of her time should be taken.
6.	Prof. ATTOLICO said that he was trying to work cut a preliminary programme for the question of disarmament at the Assembly.
He thought something substantial could be done although as a result of the temporary character of the ITon-aggression pact, our difficulties would be greater than before for the next throe months. However, the declarations of Genoa and Boulogne made cur
-5'
? ’• 1
responsibilities greater though not easier. He thought the Assembly could:
1)	Take a definite step towards naval disarmament by working out the Seagrave proposal. The Assombly should assent to a proposal from the Temporary Commission to convoke a Conference of Government representatives to complete the Washington agreement.
2)	Take up the Treaty about submarines and poison gas and appeal to all nations to adhere to it. He thought the United States would not resent this action/ but on the contrary would welcome our co-oporation.
3)	For Land disarmament he had little hope for substantial results. The statistical enquiry would if well presented show respective preliminary results and he hoped to got some real answers to the enquiry ¿s to the special requirements of various countries, due their geographical position etc.
On this, the Assembly could initiate a general discussion
%
in which the whole question of the relation of the non-aggression Pact to the League could, with great advantage, be debated.
4)	Private manufacture of armaments:- It seemed clear that this question could only be dealt with in connexion with that of the Treaty on Arms Traffic Control and if we could really find a formula for the conditional ratification of this Treaty
it would be a step in advance.
The Secretary General said that during the Council mooting-when the report cf the Permanent Commission was considered it was decided that the Secretariat should be instructed to collect all answers to the letters about ratification of this Treaty, and submit conclusions to the Council. Ho was sorry to hear that
-4-
the land disarmament question locked so unhopeful since it was by this that the league would bo judged» Could not the Temporary Com ission at least agree to recommend’that proportional reduction of armaments by units was a possibility and fix what the unit should be? Even though the Assembly could hardly start considering how many units ouch country should possess, this would nevertheless be a grei t step f or war d.
Professor Attolico was doubtful as to the possibility of this, or indeed as to the possibility ^t the present time of doing much on the really big questions. However, the Committee meeting might make things look different.
Dr. Van Iloznel threw out the proposal that the Temporary Commission should refer to the way in which the question was bound up with the admission of Germany
-5-
Jm:o 1922.
7.	RDGIoTkAPIOII 0? TIEEATIZS:	Dr. 7
any steps had yet been taken to secure 27on—Aggression Pact agreed to at Genoa . uted an International Engagement, and e without ratification, it seemed to him
an Z-fer.cl enquired v:hoth. the registration of the As t7ais Pact constitutor cd into foreo desirahle that it shoul
d
he registered.
txov; was
-rood to
Dr. Van Hanoi also remarked that the Treaty of Papa 11 o between. Germany within a short tine. Germany has, so Treaties 'without exception.
we should probably reçoive and Russia for Registre.tio far registered all her
8.- SAAR VALLEY;	sir. Gileur 1st reported that th
iGtrons
for the so-called Parliament of the Saar were to be held cn the 24th Juno. It at present appeared that all the political parties would participate in the Dloctions, oucept the Aajority Socialists •: r Communists, who together numbered about one-third of the doctorate. As there are still three weeks before- the
clccti:
;ake place
ptain Gilchrist considered it probable
that these parties might yet change their attitude. The principal ground for hostility felt by the opponents of the new Parliament in the Saar territory was that only noriginsires of the territory arc ..allowed to vote or to be ¡.¿ambers. They complain that there will be no one with suitable political training to load the Parliament when it is formed. They felt this to bo a real injustices.
have
—6 —
g.	LEAGUE FINANCE: Hr Bioler reported thr. tho re commendst ions of the Commission of Con ox circulars were being preps, red 07 tho Fine, for submission to the Secretary General and
t as a result of trol, a number n c ia 1 A dain i st r a t i on would be sent round
shortly. The most important of these circulars referred to tho establishment of a system of internal control, whereby it would bo necessary before incurring any expenditure to go through a number of formalities.
The Secretary General said that before Sir Herbert Ames had left Geneva, he had considered with him tho question of general financial control, and they had agreed to a plan of internal control with a running audit, the results of which should be submitted from time to time to the members of the Commission of Control. The Secretary General hoped that this system might be accepted, though it was not certain.
10.	REP032 Oil CONCILIATION: Dr. van Hamel reported that tho * 11
i	r "	IT--.“	-	.
Sommission on Conciliation had agreed to the Report, which, he thought, included a very valuable) proposal* Genorally Speahing, the suggestions contained in the Report wore that tho members of the League should be invited to agree tc international treaties for conciliation between themselves, and that the Assembly should agree to a strong reconmendation urging the advisability cf such ttreaties.
11.	vUPPER S1155LA: Dr. van Hamel reported that both the German and the Polish Parliaments had now ratified the Upper Silesian Convention. He was not very happy, however, about tho way
in which the
-7-
tlio German Parliament had done it. There had been an official declaration made in the Reichstag by the head of the Government, which included a pretest against the Convention on the ground that it constituted a legal violation of the Treaty of Versailles* hr. van Hainel wondered whether there might not be some Way in which this opinion, which was universally held in Germany, might be shown to be false. He was afraid that German opinion would be fpllowed by opinion in Sweden, Denmark,
Holland, and other countries, in thinking that the Frontier decision in Upper Silesia was a violation of the Treaty, and he felt convinced that these protests were now being made in this very formal manner in order that they might be utilisod as arguments at a later date. He thought that they, therefore, constituted a real danger. He suggested that the matter might perhaps be referred by the Allied Governments through the Council to the International Court of Justice for an advisory opinion. This would clear up the whole position.
The Secretary General said that in his view it would be wiser to let the matter sleep so far as possible. The Conference of Ambassadors had already rejected the German protest, and it would, therefore, be difficult for the Allies to raise the point again.
Professor Attolico further pointed out that there were difficulties in doing so at the very moment when we wished to secure Germany's entry to the League.
Monsieur Hsntoux expressed the view thai an advisory opinion from the Court would not really help matters, since German public opinion would not at the
oresent/
“8-
pres ant moment trust the impartiality of the Court.
12)	AUSTRO -HUL OAR I Ah DISPUTE:	Mon s ieur
Mantoux reported that we shall probably have to lay before the next Meeting of the Council the papers which we shall receive from the Conference of Ambassadors concerning the Hungarian Frontier. He expected, however, that they would arrive too late for any decision to be taken by the Council.
The Secretary General agreed that it was important that .the Council should not take any decision on this question unless all the papers had been circulated at least three weeks in advanoe.
It was a very complicated question, and one which would require very careful consideration. As far as he understood the matter, there were two points on which the league might have to act. Firstly, with regard to the Austro-Hungarian Frontier, it was possible that the Council might have to act as Arbitrators if either of the parties desired them to do so; secondly, on other Hungarian frontiers the Council may be invited to lend its good offices if either party makes such a request.
13)	ENQUIRY IUTC THE RUSSIA: FRHI1TB:	Monsieur
Mantoux said that in view of the reply which Signor Facta hud made to the President of the Council concerning the Norwegian Government's proposal Cor an enquiry into the economic consequences of the Famine, he had been wondering how the matter could be brought up again so that it could be dealt wi th without delay. If it wore left over until the next Meeting of the Council in July, the Report of the Commission could not be ready before September, which would make it toe late for anything to be done before next winter set
-9-
in. He wondered, therefore, if it could not he dealt with, by correspondence, and whether, for example, the list of Members proposed by the Norwegian Government could not be circulated to the Council and their agreement secured in that way.
As a matter of tactics, he thought that it would be wise to treat the matter as being of no great importance. Personally, he thought that the results which such an enquiry would show would lead to action which would be very important indeed.
The Secretary General replied that in his view, it was too important a matter to be dealt with hy correspondence. Moreover, he thought that it would be an error of tactics to deal with it immediately after Genoa had closed; it might be
considered to be offensive by those responsible for the Genoa Conference. There were two further points which he thought should be taken into account before the matter came up for definite decision. Pirst, whether the Soviet Authorities could be induced to send people to give evidence; and second, whether the United States Government could he induced to join in in view of the fact that their proposals are very similar.
Professor Attolico said that in his view it
was important that when it came before the Council this matter should be very carefully prepared and the whole plan of action which was to be followed should he got ready in every detail.
The Secretary General said that he thought that it would be well for Directors, when they went to their own countries, to prepare the ground with
the hr
-10-
their Governments, and see what the attitude v;as towards this very valuable proposal.
Monsieur I'.antoux added that he thought that the Re'-ort of such a Commission night be very valuable whether or not the Commission went to Russia. Lord Emmott last year presided over a Committee of this sort, which produced a very useful Report although it had never been into Russia.
Dr. Rajchmann expressed a fear that such a Commission of Enquiry, if it went into the question of Epidemios, might endanger the conclusions of the Warsaw Repo rt.
Professor Attolico and the Secretary General, however, both agreed that there was no danger of this sort, but that such a Commission would help on the cause of the Epidemics campaign.
14) GErOA RE SO IUTIOZIS :	Monsieur Dufour
enquired whether the Resolutions agreed to by the Genoa Conference on Economic and financial questions had ever been communicated officially to the league.
It was stated that these Resolutions had, in fact, never been officially received, but it was agreed
that	we	had s uf f ic	lent	inf o rma ti on	at our disposal
tahe	the	action on	them	whi ch was	re quired.
15)	±j	I GET STATE	o OR	: Eli.cila; i	ILDUS TRIAL
IUPO	RTAI	ICE: T he	3e cr	etary Gener	al reported that
the	o o g	ission on	thi s	question, vi	hich had profited
larg	CD H	by Professor Gi		ni' s assist	once, had agreed •
its	Rer o	rt.			
&
38

onfidential
LEAGUE 0? PA TI0i:S
Distributed, to Under-S0orotarioe General and Direotors0
Directors1 Meeting Ho, 50
5 E ES V à, 12/6/1922,
SECHE TAP Y-GERER AL
Professor Attolico Ho nsi gut Bonnet Mr. Bieler Dame Ha ch ol Oror/dy Hr • Cummin gs Monsieur Comert Mr. G i Ich riet Monsieur Haas Dr. Y an Hamel Monsieur Halooki lions le ur Mantoux Mr. Ifixon Mr. Pelt Dr. Eachirf.nn Professor Ruppord Dr. Porman White.
THE S HCR E Tl P. Y - GIRIER A L suggested that discussion should
begin at once on Professor Attolicors report on the results of The Genoa Conference from the vieifpoint of Leaguo interests.
Monsieur RAPPAED thought that the suggestion with regard
to the Argentine amendment was most interesting. He believed that it was desirable to secure the membership of Germany in the Leaguo and to conciliate South American opinion. On the other hand, he realised that the adoption of this amendment might arouse hostility in Prance and might indicate that the League was weak by thus letting 4°vai the bars which had previously regulated, admission to memo er sh ip •
THE SECRET \RY~GEiTHRAL pointed out that as the Argentine
proposa 1 v.a.s a„n amendment to the Covenant, it could not be utilieal at the next Assembly, and that it would require formal acceptance by all the members of the Council and by more than a simple majority of the Assembly • He thought, however, that this proposal could perhaps serve as a method of stimulating dobate in the Assembly even though it could not be iramediately serviceable for practical purposes.
Monsieur COMSHT said that ho wished to consider the general theory of Professor AttolicoTs paper tether than the details, as he did not think that he was in agreement with Professor AttolieoTs fundamental idea*
In the first ple.ee, ho thong It we should not tripe ct any great transformation of the League merely through the admission of Germany and he pointed out that there is no practical disadvantage to the League because Germany is not a Member , i.e., we have almost as much work to do and os many political problems as we vrbnld have if Germany belonged.
In the second place, ho wanted to emphasize that the League does not handle the big political problems because the Governments do not wish to send them here for solution» The same is true of the most important financial questions* fhe Governments wish to secure the profit for themselves out of the settle« merit of the big questions and they wish a settlement not by an impartial tribunal, but in a way which will serve their own interests most satisfactorily, In this connection it is interesting to note that no big Power has accepted the compulsory Jurisdiction of the International Court, Per example, take Lloyd Georgetb attitude with regard to Genoa and the League, the view of the Italian and the Dutch Governments concerning the League Secretariat^ and the arrangements for the Genoa and Hague conferences® V/hen questions go to the League, no Government gets any credit for their satisfactory settlement, for example, consider the Upper Silesian and the Aaland islands questions* ¡Therefore big questions do not go to the League except in case of a deadlock such as that which existed with regard to Upper Siiesiao
He thought that tec League should take such problems as it could handle - technical or political and that'with Germany in the League, we might expect a few more questions to come to us. Even with Germany in, however, many big problems
i- ¡3"
would still be solved directly by the Powers as Germany had the same viewpoint as the other Powers, i.e., she wished to derive as much oredit as possible from the settlement of political questions and to secure a settlement in her own interest. The admission of Germany would not give to the League such enormous positive advantages as would the admission of the United States on the assumption that tho United States would insist upon dealing with European questions only through the League.
In the third place, it was necessary to note that the Governments have built up a frail machine, the League, which is now, however, largely dependent for support in each country on the Parliamentary opposition. This does not strengthen the Leagued pos it ion,
Although differing thus with Professor Attolico's theories, Monsieur COKERT was in entire agreement as to Professor Attolico's conclusions ,i«e., as to the necessity for taking up the Russian famine question, etc.
Dr. VA1I HAMEL observed that if, as Monsieur Oomert said, the League was supported in each country by the parliamentary opposition, so in international relations it was also supported by the opposition. For example, after the Cannes Conference, France supported the League in opposition to the British; the same thing would be true with regard to the situation inside Germany.
If for no other reason, the entrance of Germany would therefore bring support to the League.
Professor ATTOLICO has made one important practioal proposal and that concerned Germany's admission. This matter was of the utmost importance, also for that reason that German admission would quite probably load to the admission of the United States. The entrance of the latter was not now under discussion,
-4
but Dr. Yan Hamel wanted to state that he thought it was most desirable not to leave America to its own devices. American public opinion was so ignorant on the League question that it needed all possible attention and perhaps action, from this side of the Atlantic*
Dr. VAN HAMEL had prepared c memorandum with regard to Professor attolico1s report os to the entrance of Germany and at the Secretary-General1 s request,, he outlined some of the points contained in it;
As regards the Argentine amendment, Dr. Van Hamel agreed with the Secretary-General. Of course, there might be an advantage in bringing up Germany's admission to the Assembly through discussion of this amendment.
On principle, however, he did cot approve the amendment. He thought that a vote should be held with regard to admissions to tho League as provided in the Covenant. The adoption of the Argentine amendment would open the League to States like Mexico, Abyssinia, etc., provided such states were considered as Members of the Civilised community of Nations.
He thought that negotiations should be tarried on with Germany at once through Paris, London, etc.
He did not think we should hesitate too much about who should be the first one to speak. He felt sure that Rathenau would change if he only understood the situation thoroughly, and if he could bring in Germany with some personal suddoss.
In order to get Germany into the League, it was now necessary to offer some attraction, because Germany was not eager to come in. She must have a seat or} the Council although it was unfortunate that Germany herself had stated this in the Press. She should also have a place on the Mandates Commission and on any possible Minorities Commission. Of course, Germany also might ask for some assurances about the Saar. Concessions were necessary because German public opinion had been constantly aroused against the League for the last two or three years and the Government could not immediately face about. Concessions which would be unfavourable to other Powers should not, however, in his vie ft, be granted. If the Allies' to aid give M. Rathenau the opportunity of bringing Germany into the League under conditions which he thought favourable, he would grasp the opportunity. Of course, other countries, such as Prance and Poland, might also want assurances on the pa it of -Ge rmany»
-5-
It was most important that negotiations should be carried, on daring the next three months. Pos sibly some move on tho part of the small neutral states, if only of private nature, would be valuable. They might for instance ask the Council for its view on the admission of Germany and offer to mediate with Per many with regard to the matter. Perhaps in some such way an understanding eould be arrived at without much talk in public. He presumed, however, that tho oecretarjat should not act on this question, certainly not unless they were authorised to do so by the Council.
HB GILCHRIST thought that Amerioa should not be expected to come into the League upon the admission of Germany, fhere was a very strong feeling in Amerioa that the League was a good thing for Europe, but that America could be more useful outside.
On the other hand, the admission of Germany would, of course, be of the greatest assistance in bringing .-merlon in-.
Dr. RAJCHMAMi was most desirous that Germany should come in.,be cause such a step would have tremendous signif icance for the peace of the V/orld-. Everyone knew that the spirit of revenge in Germany was very strong and this spirit would increase if the present attitude on the part of the great Powers continued. He thought that the Members of the Secretariat could exert considerable influence with regard to the attitude in their own countries on this question.
He thought that there was one big political issue in the hands of the League - Disarmament - and he was struck by Professor Attolioo*s remarks at the last meeting concerning the inability of the League to do anything. If that was the situation^ it should be made clear that the responsibility was not on tho League and we should see that responsibility was put where it belonged*
As public opinion was not educated up to a full understanding and appreciation of the possibilities of the league, we do not got the big -political questions, Therefore we must keep in our hands those activities which form the normal international intercourse between nations, for this reason the importance of the work of the technical organisations should not be underestimated# v:e must be courageous too in tackling technical questions, The Warsaw/ Conference which included all huropean nations except Albania and Portugal, was convoned in a fortnight. The success of the technical organisations largely rests in our own hands e
As regards Professor Attolico’s proposal with regard to epidemics, it was not enough to give publicity to our work, we ¡mat have money with whioh to run it. If wo obtain a groat doal of publicity and do not get money with which to work satis-» factorily, we lose more than we gain in the estimation of the publiq, 'Hiis was not enough realised, he thought, in the Secretariat,
In reply to a question, Professor Attolico said that ho
l
did not mean that the Assembly should assume responsibility for\ the actual carrying on of relief work in Russia,,
M, MAI-ifCUA did not feel so pessimistic as II, Conert and Professor Attolico about the actual situation. The points of danger to which they had drawn attention had always existed, and the situation had not boon greatly aggravatod by the Gonoa Conference. On the other hand, he thought that the Genoa experience had pointod out sorious difficulties attendant upon such a Conference^ It was his impression that many doubts had arisen as to the advisability of calling a Conference in the way in which the Gonoa Confaronco had been called, i.o. by certain Powers only, who put themselves in a special position and without
-7-
any settled method of procedure* The fact that tho league exists, is working, and is always available, is very much in our favour.
It is not, as wo know, the good will of the Governments which hoops the league alive, but the force of necessity which Governments one	after the othor have to recognize	when	thoy find themselves in	an embarrassing position. Should	tho league	bo nothing
more than	an escape for statesmen whan thoy	have	their	back to
the wall,	that would ho onough to perpetuate and	fully	to justify
its existence. It should not bd forgotten,too, that tho Supreme
»
Council is now somewhat discredited, and that it has now become impossible simply to return to tho customary systam of diplomatic correspondence.
As regards M« Comcrtis point about the support of tho league by Parliamentary Opposition, he was not so sure that support was simply duo to tho fact that the supporters fished to have weapons against their respective Governments. If they wore in opposition , it was becauso nationalism ovorywliere wgs snprome. But tho liberal forces which aro now in tho Opposition pay in a fow years gain control of the Governments. Of course, if this-happonod too soon it would still bo necessary oven for them bo take a more or less nationalistic attitude for sono time to cope. But little by little this will bocomo less and less of a noooe&it3r', and tho present Opposition could and would adopt tho lepguo of \ Nations as tho fundamental basis of thoir foroign policy.
The admission of Germany was certainly a most importanf mattor, In Franco responsible statesmen woro fully awaro of itj and it was only a quastion of how and whan to bring it before-public opinion* Garmanj^s public domond for a soat on the
•	K
Council and for admission without a voto, was unfortunato as fair,
i
as tho attitude of Franco was concorned, bocausa it was difficult to accopt as Gorman conditions what might have boon agrpod to
after a tactful preparation. This demand oould, howover, bo forgotten before long, but for the moment tho situation was made
-8-
more difficult "by it.
As regards the Argentine amendment, Ac, agreed with Dr. van Hamel» The adoption of this amendment would in the present circumstances really amount to the cancelling of Article 1 of the Covenant for the admission of a particular Power, who would by this be ■put in a privileged position, ifranco, he thought\ would be more willing to admit Germany direct rather than via the Argentine amendment. In his view, the best way of approaching the question would be by means of conversations between the members of the Coun-cilj as all of them were in intimate relations with their Governments, and as they knew each other enovigh to be able to discuss
privdtely any subject, however difficult, Germany as one of the
\
loading nations of northern T'urope, could not for long remain in'".
the league without a seat on the Council, but how to bring it about
1
required separate consideration. Members of the Secretariat should perhaps approach Council Members whom they knew in order to get thorn to considor the question unofficially, between themselves*
Professor RAPP AM) did not fool that the Argentine amendment
\
was intangible, but might serve as a basis for discussion. Ho thought that, the universality of the League was not merely an abstract ideal, but the necessary practical condition for further progress. It would sorve to bring about a conciliation between Government policies and rocourse to the leaguG, With the League universal you would still have "Washington and Genoa Conferences, but they v/ould be held under the general auspices of the louguo itself. Univorsalitjr and federalism or some sort of regionalism, allowing for the holding of local meetings to discuss local problems under the League, are tho two general aims to be pvirsued.
Professor ATTCLICO was sorry that there had "boon no discussion 6f details , He had hoped that tho practical proposals he had made would have justified a discussion of conurcto points, He thought that M. Comert’s points, really supported his view, and in any case they did not challenge his conclusions. Tho admission of
Germany would not, of course, ramovo all the -League’s troubles,\ but it was the first stop in the right direction,	\
_c_
It should he remembered that the only really strong reason for keeping Genoa outside the Longue was because America, Germany and Russia did not belong. Then, too, we should not forget that the Governments were not using the League largely because the League does not participate sufficiently in the active life of the world. One reason why it does not so participate is because it is not universal. If it were universal. he thought that the League would be used much mere than it is.
He intended by his report to stir up action.
He did not mean to minimise the work of the Technical
Organisations. He was only speaking of the balance between
the technical and the political work of the League. He had
not written more on the Technical Organisations because his
a
report was the last of/ series on the Genoa Conference. The ethers dealt almost entirely with the Technical Organisations.
He did not disagree with M. iiantoux's remarks. It was not so much a question of the facts as of their nuanoe.
He did not hold a brief for the Argentine amendment as it stood. He merely thought that something like it might serve the purpose of helping to bring Germany in. If Germany could be brought in direct, so much the better. But suppose that cn September 4th. we are not in a position to take Germany in, are we going to wait for the next Assembly and do nothing meanwhile? He thought this would be most unfortunate, and that we should have some legal means at our disposal by which we could negotiate with Germany between the Assemblies, at the time when we would be in the best position to do so - thau was his real purpose in bringing up the Argentine Amendment. Of course, the amendment might not be ratified at once, but even if it was not, there would be no damage done. He thought that the amendment could be so worded as not to conflict with the real spirit of the Covenant.
-10-
M. COMELT agreed that the quiche r Germany was admitted, the "better. He still thought, however, that we should not belittle the importance of our Technical Organisations, and that we should not think that we do not hove the big political questions merely because Germahy does not belong to the League. For example, the question of the admission of Germany to the League is itself a big political question, and therefore it will net be decided by the League itself, but by the Governments.
Professor ATTOLICO thought that wo must be consistent. If we held the view that the big political problems were not to be solved by the League, how could the League be expected to act on the disarmament question?
The SECELTAPY-GENERAL thought that it was most valuable to have di scussionsof this kind on the really big questions with regard to the League itself.
As to the immediate matter under discussion, he felt that there had been some misunderstanding in the differentiation which had been made between the Governments and the League. It should not be forgotten that the League was composed of the Governments.
The two were thus the some. Certain questions would quite properly 'be taken up first by certain Governments which might be most interested, or who could most appropriately act with remard to them. Later on, the same questions would come before the whole League. There was nothing inconsistent in such a procedure. i or instance, the admission of Amerioa to the League would probably bo handled in some such way.
He considered it axiomatic that what we were aiming a£ was to make the League universal and a success. There appeared, however, to be two different view's as to how this end could best be achieved. One view was that the League should endeavour to
deal direct with the unsettled problems arising out of the war.
-11"
3	ne 11 as reparation, bouB&a,£ie s of Poland, and so forth.
The other was the original view, which had been generally held to by the Allies, i¿3., that the League should come in to advise the allies upon their request in ease of need; for example, Upper Piles!a. If the Polish-Lithuanian dispute had bear handled in somewhat the same way, he thought it possible that the result might have been more satisfactory. The Allies would have asked for the views of the League, and then after a decision had been arrived at they would have enforced it. As the League had many neutral States in its membership, he thought it was perhaps unwise for it to mix up in the unsettled questions arising out of the war, except at the request of the Allies in special cases.
He thought thaS for the next year or two v/e must expect the Allies to settle most of these post-war questions among themselves, unless some special situation, such as that regarding Upper Silesia, should arise. We would, ofrcourse, get certain other snail matters referred to us. The question v?as whether you could keep the League alive during this period through the work of its technical Organisations and the smaller political questions- This pointed towards a considerable development of the technical work.	,
We must not forget that	" League was founded for a
settled world. What we must expect is that if v/e can keep the League alive for the difficult period mentioned it will assume the dominant position in the world as soon as we arrive at this SQttled condition. Our position is certainly stronger to-day than in the past, wven though we have not had to settle the big political questions. We should not, therefore, be discouraged if we do not get them referred to us. • We are building for the future, and should take a long view of the situation.
The admission of Germany is important not only from t ho viewpoint of the League as such; it is important to each of the -Hied Governments if they only realised it, because the best way to detach Germany f r an iiussia would be to get Germany into the League. The cardinal point was the attitude of Prance, and he thought it must be realised that the admission of Germany to the League meant the admission of Germany to the Council. If Prance would agree to this, everything would be clear. He thought that the Bnglish and Italian Governments must discuss this with the Trench»
The secretary-General real a translation of an article in the "Xolnische Zeitung? of June 7th,1922, which stated that wkila certain members of the secretariat had been exerting considerable efforts to induce Germany to come into the League, no Trench voice had been heard. The article stated that the admission of Germany against the will of -.'trance would be a danger to Germany itself and to the League as well, for the League would not gain an advantage if it wore to become the centre of German/Trench conflicts.
The Secretary-General also spoke of an article in "La Suisse" of June 8th,1922, which stated that the m.*elt am Mon tag" of Berlin had portrayed the League of Nations as the dominant force in the Bur ope of the future.
As regards the statement which had boon made that the Governments always wished to settle things themselves, he wished to refer to a press report which he had just received to the effect that the Yu go Slav Government had given an ultimatum to Bulgaria in order t o have them stop bands of marauders on the Macedonian frontier. The press report stated
t nut a . * •.
-13-
Note had boon sent to the league on the matter. He thought this brought out quite clearly that the League had already established a position lor itself, and he wanted/to emphasise how different it would bo if there were no League in existence«
He agreed that we should keep the Norwegian proposal with
regard to the Russian enquiry, in our own hands and execute.
it ourselves. He thought, however, that the Council would not
be likely to accept this task unless the uoviet Government and
the United States would take part. The procedure adopted at
the Warsaw Conference might also be follov;ed in this cage.
The Council could perhaps nominate at the invitation of the
Norwegian Government iive members of the Commission while the
Norwegian Government who -would maintain nominal responsibility
Vnight ask the United States and the ¿oviet Government to appoint
other monbers to join in the work. As regards the Bus si on famine,
ha was afraid that he was not in agreement with Professor
Attolico. Nansen was already doing well, and it was a question
as to whether he would wish to say to the Assembly that he
could net handle the situation without further money from the
GbVernments. He was not sure that it was advisable to take ' \
bn too much humanitarian work. The League was not a good Organisation, as experience had proved, to get money for such . things, and it w&s bad fur the League when we took on such work and could not find the funds with which to carry it through.
Neither was he sure about the advisability <sf bringing \
' \
up the Argentine amendment. The whole question of the admission of Germany lay with France . i?rance must ratify the amendment, and therefore 3he could block Germany's admission even though the Argentine amendment. He thought, however, that there might be some advantage in finding a basis upon which negotiations could be conducted between the Assemblies. In addition to the two proposals which had already been made, he also pointed out the
Hudson thoor#, which was to the effect that in vi ew of the correspondence between tho allies and Germany at the Peace Conference, with regard to Gernany1 s admission to tho League, it was not necessary for Germany to maze a formal application for admission as would he required in the case of an ordinary State. The Soerot&ry-General, however, doubted the possibility of adopting this line.
Dr. YAM HAMEL thou giro there was a third possibility — a Committee could be appointed by the Assembly with instructions to negotiate with Germany and accept Germany's admission under any necessary conditions.
Professor RAPPARD thought that drench opinion was open to influence, and that the position of the s'rench Government with regard to the admission of Germany would be strengthened if influence could be brought to bear from outside, to show that, everyone else was ready and anxious to have Germany come in. ¿trance could r.ot afford to bo put in such a position of isolation and the Government could explain to Parliament that on account of this situation it was quite essential for Prance to join tho other States in bringing Germany in.
THE SECBSTj&RY-t-SMESAL thought there was sane substance in this view. On the other hand, ho was very doubtful whether the small Powers would take it uuon themselves to approach franco with regard to this question« It might be a distasteful position for them if Prance did not accept their view.
M. COMERT vita 3 sure that Prance was ready to meet Germany • s
conditions, but /ranee was not willing to admit Germany into the Council as the result of an ultimatum from Germany. Ho thought it was • best to wait until Germany's demand had b forgotten •
THE SECBETiRY_GSii2iAl felt certain that Lathonau had put cut the press story about the conditions for Germany's admission to tho League in order to make it difficult for franco to agree to
Germany's entry.
The Secretary-General also thought that Hr. Bajchman had exaggerated the inactivity of the league on the disarmament
t
question. He thought we should understand that it took a long t^. oe to accomplish anything in such a big problem. The league had canorete proposals before it, and had done serious work on then. He felt that this would be appreciated outside.
Ms regards the epidemics situation, he thought v;e could do something in the way of publicity, but that we should ¿sake it quite clear that at Genoa the Governments had pledged first to nut the situation - which included the problem of raising money - to tho ir Parliaments, and second, to try and get their Parliaments to votetthe money necessary. This took the respdneibi lity off the league, and hb thought we should make use of this in the Press*
ftrance must be given an opportunity of talcing the initiative with regard to the conditions concerning Germany's admission. It would be most satisfactory to have franco get the credit for the solution of this question. He thought, however, that Hafehenau. did not want to come in*
The 3HCIiHTaKY-G MSItal said that he had no news about tire next Counoil Meeting. The date would depend on the status of the mandates questions-. He understood that negotiations ware going on between the Vatican and the British Cabinet, but lie did not know anything definite about them.
■t the present timo there were othar questions for the Go unci 1 which wore almost as important as the mandates, but he did not think that there would be a Council Meeting unless the mandates questions wore ready to he taken up.
Ho answer had been received from M. Viviani with regard to the meeting of the Armaments Commission. He thought that invitat ions should go out by the end of this week in any cap«»
-16-
This Commission would most on June 26th, and the Commission on Traffic in Women and Children on June 28th.
Professor BAPPABD hoped that as many members o f t be Secrotariat as possible would ba here about 1st August, when the mandates Comsis sion came together.
Professor ATTOLICO spoke of the impossibility of getting any vacation when there were Commissions meeting in August, and when the assembly met early, in 3eptember. He thought that the meeting of the Assembly should be postponed fifteen days.
It was generally agreed that this was desirable if i t could be d one.
oOo
46
LEAGUE OF NATIONS.
Comfidentic 1.
Directors’ Meeting ITo. 51,
Geneva. 19th June, 1922.
111 HUT 3 S OF TED DIRECTORS
IMG
on June 14th 1922.
Present:-
Professor Attolico: Acting Secret'"-ry-Goncrr1.
Mr. Eider.
M, C.r tnstini .
Dame Rachel Crowdy.
Mr. Cummings.
M. Denis.
Mr. Gilchrist.
Dr. T?n H'-mel.
Mr . Huston.
M. IMntoux.
Dr. hitobo.
Mr. Mixon.
11. xtrpprrd.
*>nd M. Monnct were both awry on Lorgue business. It seemed however, advisable to ex pic in the situation with regr-rd to some important matters butstend+ng.
This would be held on June 26th, end of course the work before the Committee end its membership would make the Session one of greet importance.
had been approached with the proposal th~t this famine
question should be handled through the Norwegian Government,
in order tint if possible the cooperation of the American Governmen'
;l) The next Meeting of the Disarmament Committee:
2) The pro fa mine;
proposal of the Norwegian Government wi th regard to the Russian
and the Soviet Government might be secured. This proposal had
been favourably received by Dr. Hansen, and hr. Safer would
leave immediately to go over the matter in further detail with him,
‘ The Frontier between Austria ana Hungary:
At Professor. Att-olico rs request M. MAlITOIiX explained that it had been provided in the Venice Agreement between Austria and Hungary, at the time when the Oedenburg plebiscite was decided upon, that if Austria objected to the delimitation of the frontier between these two States the question should be referred to the Council of the League for arbitration« This was somewhat different from the arrangement- with regard to .the delimitation of frontiers between Austria and other neighbouring States, in which cases it \’Txs provided that the League might be ashed to oifer its 11good offices" for the settlement of differences arising. M. Mantoux had heard sometime ego that Hungary thought thut the difference of opinion with Austria should be submitted for arbitration by the Council,, end the Conference of Ambassadors had new officially referred the matter to the Council for such action. Austria had pledged h. rself to accept the Council's decision provided it was taken by a unanimous vote »
A telegram ha d been sent to the Secretary-General about putting this question on the agenda for the next meeting.
PROFKSSOR ATTQLIOCA observed that it was important to note that *
the League was once again recognised as an appropriate organ
to which disputes could be referred for settlement.
MR- CUMMINGS - shed whether an announcement could be made to the Press with regard to this question.
Mo HAPTOTJX thought that this should not be done until a reply had been received from the Secretary-General, end e letter despatched to the Conference of Ambassadors,
i)	Visit of several Members of the Secretariat to Prague:
M. 1 Ell IS stated that M. Monnet, M. Comert, Major Buxton and he were leaving the next day tc .join Mr. Co lb an and M.
Slavik in Prague. They were going there to establish personal contact with various representatives of Czechoslovakia on the Technical Organisations of the League, and to discuss various political problems, but their visit "as an informal one, nd no public announcement would be made with regard to it PROFESSOR MT^OLICO thought t'nst this trip was in line with the suggestion of the IVth Committee of the /issembly that contact should be maintained with the different Governments Members of the League, and t:.ho„hoped i: that this was only the first of a series of such visits to various countries, Li. PEN IS pointed out that thero was some difference of
opinion within the Secretariat ag to how far such visits should be used for propaganda purposes within the State visited.. M. Monnet feared that if public announcements were made, other Governments might not understand why s similar visit had not been made to their own capitals,
In any case M. Comert would, of course, establish relations
*
with the journalists in Prague,
The Committee on Intellectual Cooperation,
IE, FITOBE reported that he had just returned from London
- 4- -
and Paris, where he ha d found Professor Gilbert Murray
and M* Bergson enthusiastic about the prospects for the Committee
on Intellectual Co-operation, He had also seen Madame
Curie, who was somewhat afraid that this Committee would
take too much time from her other work, but he had tried
to reassure her on this point,
He then explained the position with regard to the American member of the Committee. Dr. George Hale, who was at the head of the list approved by the Council, had at first declined, but before Dr. Kitobe had made any definite commitments with regard to any of the other people who had been approved by tho Council, Dr. Hale hrd sent a-personal message to the effect that ho could accept.
Formal messages were now being exchanged with him.
6> The League's Financial situation,
MR, BIE 1ER stated that the financial situation might become serious before the meeting of the Assembly. There was s good reserve in hrnd now, and a few contributions were expected shortly, hut most States were paying on the basis of the barême most favourable to them. Denmark had, however, paid on the basis of the barême in force, although it was not so favourablo as the new' figures which had been proposed. The International Labour Offico rs short of funds at the present time, and this might add to the difficulties .
7)	Meeting of the Allocation Commission:
Considerable discussion then ensued, in which MM. Denis,
Bieler, Attolico and Dixon took part, with regard to the importance rnd work of the meeting cf the Allocation Commission, which is to take place in Paris on June 28th.
The meeting had been ca-llod in order that the States which
5
hr d made objections to the new bsrcme might be heard by tho Commission, but now it wrs quite clear th-t the nc-w barême could not possibly come into force, so that there did not appear to be eny prrticular point in herring complaints egeinst it.
On the other hand, it wrs pointed out that as the new berime had not been accepted, it wrs most necessary thrt some new programme should be arranged for presentation to the Assembly.
Letters hr d gone cut to the various States the day before with regard to this meeting, but the letters were rather vague. The chief difficulty was that the Commission would meet in two weeks, and it vas not easy to get into touch with the States at a distance who did not have full Delegates near by: such States, for instance, as Cuba. It had been the Secretary-General1 s view thrt letters she aid be written to these States which had qualified representatives in Europe,and for other States to those ministers in cities near by who might have represented them at the Assembly.
The letter could then telegraph to their Governments if they considered it necessary. It was, however, pointed out that States which did not want to payr would be gird to have an excuse which they might think would relieve thorn of their obligations, and that, therefore, it might be advisable to cable to certain South American States in order that- they might have time to give instructions to their Delegates in Europe before the meeting of the Commission»
It was stated that Mr. Prumkin was Secretary of this Commission and that Mr. love da y hrd been following the matter. In view of the political importance of the question however it was suggested that a senior Member of the Secretariat
6-
sliotild perhaps also he -resent /lien the Cerrisiion care together, and it -ms thought that the Co or etary- General hir self Eight he passing through Paris at that tiro.»
PRCPDHOR ATTQIICQ suggested that hr. Nixon or hr. T-ovoday ,Hr, Denis and hr. Bieler right go over this ratter with hir. after the meeting.
(3) PROPRIGOR RAPPaRD announced that ho had been in cor mini cation v/ith
certain governrerit offices at Borne about the Telegraph Code, and
that thev he A offered to give their assistance in the ratter, but
that as this question ms not urgent, it a •.-oared advisable to
?ait for the return of the Sooretary-general and hr. Dixon. He
ashed if there was any news as to the date of the next Counc.il
Meeting, but no one had any definite in fori-.at ion. He also stated
that he expected to sec dir Herbert Jaruols shortly, and would be
glad to for5yard any oorrunications to hir.
f9} The '"forii of the Dconoric Corrission:
HR., NIX OH reported that the Roonor.io Cora is si on had just finished
its ireeting, and that they had dono even roro trail the Council
had requested thor to do concerning the Genoa Resolutions. Not i
only had they tahon up those nattera directly which had been referred to the league, but they had gone into all the
■ .
Resolutions within their field of action, and they had laid the
l
basis for three International Conventions regarding the eguitatl©
t re a trout of correrce. Although he did not expect that the
Conventions theraelves would raterialise for sore tiro to core,
the worJc done by the Corrission was of real significanceas the
renters of that tody wore in post cases the correroiul advisers of
their respective Governrents.
'
\
I


-7-
p:?CiT-a530H aTTOLICO pointed on in stooping from the stage
t the good progreso which had been of vague resolutions to that of
nade
definite Conventions,
P10TES >0?. 3a?'PARI thought that the public ought to know about such
good work done,bp the League, and discussion ensued on this natter. In conclusion, PMQPLS 50?» ATTOLICO gave it as his view that the tire was not opportune for publicity, as everyone was tjos } inistie
at the rorent, and it would be bettor to give thorn a Dig shock all at once when the right tir e care, He also thought that as the rerbers of the Corrission were doing progressive work on their own initiative, it would perhaps be inadvisable to expose tner to their own Co verm ants, who right not fully agree with their views.
UR. IIIXON entirely agreed with tills view. flO) The position of League Officials In Genevas
PHOfESSOH ATTOLICC presented for consideration a leu ter from a Leal
Estate Agent in Geneva, II, far tin, which he considered very serious, as It contained statements’ derogatory to the good-faith and the dignity ox the rerbers of the Secretariat, He thought that ir redíate action rust bo taken vis-a-vis the «.gent, and with the federal and local Cover "rent, The letter in question, written to a rember of the 'Secret;/.-lat-stated that the Agent would net deal with an official of the League, cited the case of
Mr. Harr.arskjoeld'3 apartment, the signature of the lease for which he alleged had not been honoured, and stated in conclusion that he was certain he was not ”/rong In Doing unv/illinm to deal with persons whose engagements were declared invalid.
MP» HU3T0H then explained the Hamrarskjoeld case, and the action of the Secretary-General with regard to it.
This sare Agent had written to the Secretary-General to intervene in the ratter, on the ground that Mr»Hairmarskjoeld; v/as getting out of ills obligations because cf his diplomatic immunity, Mr. Harmarsk joe Id had replied that he v/as not standing on any diplomatic privileges, but merely on his rights under the law in force in Geneva, Tho Secretary-General had, therefore, replied to that ex feet, and that without further information lie could do nothing in the matter.

At the request of ?RCfL3 303 nfrOLICO, L - £^¿¡.3 oame in uiid gave certain information with regard to the arrest ox a chauffeur driving a League ear in Geneva, and the practice of the Labour Office with regard to ouch matters. Considerable discussion then followed on this nuestion.
PlCPLHOH HAZARD felt sure that we had a very strong weapon in our hands, because the public would side with us in this question«,
This would strengthen our legal position, and he felt sure, too, that both the local and the federal Governrents would tabs the matter up, particularly as it was a clear case of bad-will against an official because he "/as an official. He thought the proper-procedure would be to communicate with both the Cantonal and the federal Governments, saying that we knew we could count on their support, and that we should be glad to hear what steps were being takoim Ho could not, of course, tell u:-caetly what would be done in this case.
DR. 7nN HAMEL said that he had 'lot had an opportunity of examining
any of the papers in the ll&mmarshjoeld case, As regards the Secretariat in general we might claim, from, the Swiss authorities that the members of the Secretariat should be protected against attacks of this hind, As fur as the question of the chauffeur was concerned, he did not think it desirable to legally discuss that matter now; it was of a complicated nature, and had been carefully dealt with by the Section.
PROCESSOR ATTOLICO said that a copy of this new con unication would,
of course, be sent'at cnco to 1,1, Hammar shield, in order that ho -mi-ht take such action as he considered necessary because of the references to his case. He emphasised the necessity of safeguarding the position of League officials in masters of this kind, and added that it was, of course, also in the interests of the Swiss that letters of this character should not be permitted to pass unnoticed,
It was understood that Dr, van Hamel would draft the necessary letters, in consultation with II, Raopard.
LEAGUB OF MATIONS,
f
46
Directors Meeting Ho. 52*
CONFIDENTIAL.
MINUTEE OF THE DIRECTORS MEETING
HELD in the SECRETARY-GENERAL'*S ROOM
on WEDNESDAY, 21st JUNE 1922, at 3 p.m.
Présent : -
Secretary-General, Professer ^ttolioo, Mr. Bieler,
M. Bonnet,
Dame Hachai Crowdy, M. Léon Dufour,
Mr. Gilchrist,
Dr. van Hamel,
M. Mantoux,
Dr. Hitohé, Professor Rappard, M. Villari.
The SECRETARY-GEEERAL said that during the seven days which
\
he had spent in London, he had found that it was the general feeling that the League had gained in force, and was an established, going machine. This had been the view of the associates of the I rime i.nnister whom he had seen, and he was told that the irime Minister had expressed himself in favour of using the League for the solution of international questions.
He had talked with Lord Balfour on some of the more important questions of the moment, such as that of the admission of Germany, and the Mandates situation. On other points with regard to which the League needed the help of the British Government he had left memoranda in order that Lord Balfour, who was almost worn out with
\
his work as head of the Foreign Office, might deal with them later on. The questions which he had taken up were as follows : - 1
1. THE STATUS OF THE POLI3H-LITHUANIAN QUESTION.
He had also talked to Viscount Ishii in Laris about thi^
l
and was much surprised to find that it had been the
LEAGUE OF HATIONS.
Directors Meeting Bo. 52.
CONFIDENTIAL.
MINUTES OF THE DIRECTORS MEETING HELD in the SECRETARY-GENERAL1S ROOM on WEDNESDAY, 21st JUNE 1922, at 3 p.m.
present : -
üeoretary-General, Professor nttolico, Mr. Bieler,
M. Bonnet,
Dame Raohel Crowdy, M. Léon Dufour,
Mr. Gilchrist,
Dr. van Hamel,
M. Mantoux,
Dr. Nitobé, Professor Rappard, M. Villari.
The SECRETARY -GEN ERAL said that during the seven days which
he had spent in London, he had found that it was the general feeling that the league had gained in force, and Tias an established, going machine. This had been the view of the associates of the I rime Minister whom he had seen, and he was told that the irime Minister had expressed himself in favour of using the League for the solution of international questions.
He had talked with Lord Balfour on some of the more important questions of the moment, such as that of the admission of Germany, and the Mandates situation. On other points with regard to which the League needed the help of the British Government he had left memoranda in order that Lord Balfour, who was almost worn out with his work as head of the Foreign Office, might deal with them later on. The questions which he had taken up were as follows 1
1. THE STATUS OF THE POLISH-1ITHUANIAN QUESTION.
He had also talked to Viscount Ishii in Paris about thi$ and was much surprised to find that it had been the
general impression at Genoa that the league was still dealing with this problem, end for this reason the Allies had thought that they should not take it up.
He explained that the league had e^chausted all its powers in trying to settle the matter, but that the two parties had not accepted the League's recommendation. it seemed to him that the Allies would now probably have to fix the boundary line, and he suggested that in doing so they should really confirm the League's recommendation, and express regret that the two parties had not seen fit to accept it by themselves.
2 <. UPPER SILLSIA.
He found that Lord Balfour was prepared to male a speech in defence of the League's solution of this cuestión, and that he intended to include in it certain other points of importance about the League. This speech would probably be made in two or three weeks.
In view of the pivotal position which Lord Balfour now held, he thought that such a speech would have a big effect, and would destroy the view that the British Government vas not responsible for the Upper oilesian decision.
3. REGISTRATION OR THE HQN-AGGRESSION PACT.
He understood that professor Attolico had already written to Italy about this matter. He had found the British Government agreeable to such action, but that they preferred the Italian Government to move in the matter, as the ¿act had been drawn up at Genoa,
DrY Ail HAMEL pointed out that the so-called I act was really not anything more than an agreement to make a Pact some time in the future.
It v.ras considered, however, that the agreement could
be gegistered, and it was pointed out that it would be more difficult to conclude a final ..act if the preliminary one was not thus formally registered.
4.	BUSSLiH REPUGEES.
The SECRETARY GETARAL had loft the memorandum prepared by nr. Nansen’s representative, and he hoped that it would be submitted to Monsieur Toincar4 at an early date.
The matter v;as urgent, as the -jmerioan offer lapsed on July 1st, and he was afraid that the situation might break down unless there was some money forthcoming from Prance* The British conditional offer of £10,000, of course, held good, and some funds had been secured from other Towers, but this was not enough.
Jr. VAN HAMEL, said that he understood that the condition
attached to the offer of the .merican ..elief Administration v/as not necessarily a binding one. He also understood that if the British Government gave their £10,000 outright at the present time, this condition would be waived.
5.	PALESTINE MAH DATE•
Discussions were going on with regard to the protest from the Vatican, and the Secretary General hoped that a satisfactory formula would be found to meet the situation.
It would then be necessary to communicate with the Italian v and .crench Governments, and secure the agreement of the United tates so that a Treaty on the matter could be signed after the mandate had been approved, as in the ease of Yap. nil this would take time. r of e s so r RAP BAUD pointed out that the Vatican Note had nov> been published in London, and he asked about giving it further circulation in the Teague.
The SECRETARY GENERAh suggested that it should be circulated
to t e mandates Commission for their personal information only.
6. THI: ¿iU & lit Liiii FIHiJS C LAL ,1 _U,_IOH .
The secretary General had explained his opposition to the British policy, which favoured the appointment of a financial adviser to the ustrian Government by the lending groups. It was his view that such an adviser would have no political influence, but that if he were appointed other overnments would be placed in a difficult position, and that it would not be easy for Austria herself to accept the aifangement. He, therefore, favoured the appointment of such an adviser by the League. It was pointed out to him, however, that the .¿ustrian finances were now in a hopeless condition, and that if the j.eague should go ahead and appoint an adviser now they would, in the public eye, have to shoulder a considerable amount of responsibility for the state, of affairs in that country, even though technically they were not in this position. This view v/as, of course, reasonable, and it seemed impossible for the present to do anything more about the matter.
7. THE liOR.-L-GIAB PROPOSAL OOMC.TRM U5& RUSSIA.
He could not say what the British view would be, but he thought it would quite probably be favourable. Nothing new had been heard from Mr. Laker, who had gone to see )r. iansen.
/
0. GERMHY’S LEGAL PRGTL1T COMCAHEiG UPPER BILESIA.
He had discussed jt . van Hamel1 s neinorandum on this matter, aad he thought it quite likely that the legal advisers of the four lovers would draw up a paper to go to Germanj’ through the Conference of Ambassadors, al-
\
though ho was not at all sure that this would really bo dono.
-4-
5
Dr. VAÎT HALIEL pointed ont ».hab the protest had no.; been repeated by President Ebert himself, and said that the Polish representative in Geneva had ashed him if tne League would act in the matter.	He nad replied tuât the League was not
responsible, and ashed whether Poland would do anythin^ .
The Polish representative stated that the situation was considered serions, but that Poland did not think that she was in a position to move, as the decision had been forced upon her as well as upon Germany. He added, however, that Poland might find it impossible to vote for the admission of Germany to the League without a retraction of this protest.
. EXPF1Î3ES OP THE 7ÂR3A.7 GC 23F~RE2ICE. -
He had found that the British Government were cuite willing to pay under the barême proposed, but unis did not really meet the urgent needs of the situation. Tne British Government were, however, ready to pay £100,COG if all of the other 'Powers would raise ££CC,CCC. He also hoped that they would be willing to make a definite contribution at once, as he thought it was most necessary to get some money in hand, in order inat we might bring stronger pressure to bear upon otner States.
10
" ALLIED 3C Ik IIS 3101? OF INVESTIGATION III TURLEY. -He said that Dame Rachel Crowdy had suggested the addition to the new Allied Gome is si on of one of the members of the League's Commission of Enquiry on the De ortation of women and Children in Asia minor — .irs. Jeppe {Danish). He thought that this was advisable, as it would strengthen the constitution of tne Commission, and would help out the situation from the women's standpoint.
- fi-
ll.	THE iLDLUfM'ICIT 05' GAIETY TC TH" JERQUE. -
This was perhaps the most important question of all, and he had found everyone very keen for Germany*s admission. Lord Balfour had practically promised to talk to Monsieur Poincare on the subject, but he had no definite news as yet as to what had hapoene ; .	He
thought that everything possible had been put into motion so far as Germany and Great Britain were concerned, and he fait that Germany would not apply unless they knew that they had the support of England with the connivance of France . The situation, however, was oy no means easy, and required very careful handling. Ke was firmly convinced that, the movements now under way should oe allowed to develop on their own lines, and he was hopeful of the outcome. He, therefore, urged that no other action should be taken during the next two or tnree weeks, as such moves might even wreck the present prospedts *
Hr. YAH HAMEL pointed out that public opinion in German/ had
been aroused against the League for a long time , and that tiie middle-class population had seen stailed by the Press with hatred against it.
The SFOHETARY-GEtTPRAL, however, thought that the attitude in
Germany had changed enormously during, the past month, and he alluded to the remarks of the German Delegate to tne 3econd International as most significant. The working population were in general for the League, the Centre was for it, so that the only opponents were the Communists, the Extreme Eight, the Stinnes group and some of tne indus-Thero had nev r been so many articles in the
trials .
-7
German press favourable to the league as during tiie x8.st two or tnreo weeks •
12.	TFT IITCTaSE Cl TH" OCUi-IOIi U 1323.
This, of course, depended muon on the situation with regard to Germany, and no conclusions could be drawn now. .
He had had a very interesting conversation with minister Edwards, who had just returned from Chile, where the u re si dent and the lower House of the Congress were favouraolc to the league.	The Senate
however, had made attacks against it, on the ground that it was a -cague of victors alone. hr. Edvards
N
thought that the position vis-a-vis tne hr gent ine was most important for all ci South America. The new President who would oe inaugurated in October or November was favourable to Lee .League, but could net bring the Argentine back without a bridge. The admission of Germany would give him just the opportunity he needed, and if the Argentine came uack tnen South America would oe solid behind the League. As regards South America the return ci tne argentine was even more important than the entry of the 1 nite & ° taie s.
Everythin^, there tore, seemed to hin^s on the admission of Germany.
IE. PUBLIC IT'7 IN 1C II DC N . -
The -eague's publicity in London was certainly not satisfactory. One dif.iculty was taut the papers always wanted sensational news. He thought,
however, that
something might he done to improve the sit-oat ion, and he had asked Mr. Cummings to go over and report on the matter.
THE NEXT COUNCIL MEETING.
The idea still prevailed that the Council would meet on the 17th, hut it was not certain as to where it would meet.
Lord Balfour, who took a special interest in the Palestine Mandate, might still he at the foreign Office, and, therefore, could not very well come to Geneva. He had wondered whether, under the circumstances, the meeting could hot he held in London. This would give the League the publicity it needed in England at the present time, especially as the British public were specially interested in mandates, and because of the significance which would he attached to the presence in the Council of the acting Minister for foreign Affairs. No big meeting had been held in London for some time, and the agenda for this coming Session had now grown in number and in importance. T.'ure might, however, be difficulties on account cf the attitude of the Commission of Con^sol. He had allowed the matter to rest for the moment pending a solution of the question as to where the Temporary Armaments Commission would meet.
H. HANTQUX stated that his contribution to the agenda would be larger than he had expected. The Conference of Ambassadors had referred to the League (a) the question of arbitrating certain decisions of the Delimitation Commission with regard to the frontier between Austria and Hungary, and (b) a request that the Council should use its good, offices to settle certain boundary questions between Hungary and Yugo Slavia and Hungary and Eoumania..
~9~
Bulgaria had also applied to the league, as she had found herself in trouble with all her neighbours on account of raiding parties which were at work along the frontiers:i.e. with Roumania, Greece and Yugo Slavia. The question had not been raised as an international dispute, but the league had been requested to enquire into the situation with the idea of being able to placate her neighbours. For the moment it wouia only be necessary to appoint a Commission of Enquiry.
Professor ATTQLICO asked whether this concerned in any way the league* s right of investigation under the Treaty, hut the Secretary-General Explained that this was not the case, as the Bulgarians had claimed that they had not even been able to raise the number of troops which they were authorised to have» They had tried their best to control the situation, but they had found it very difficult with the reduced volunteer forces at their disposal.
In reply to a question by M, Yillari, M, Uantoux said ihat the Bulgarian request could be Reported in the Monthly Summary and communicated to the pffess.
Professor ATTQLICO said that the meeting at the Temporary Urmaments Commission had been postponed from June 26th to July Sid, and would probably be held in PafiB,
Professor RaPPaRD asked who had the power to deoide the place of meeting under the Committee* s Rules of Procedure.
Professor ATTQLICO said that the President of the Committee had decided the matter, as there were no Rules of Procedure. Professor RAP BIRD asked whether it would not be advisable to have rules, as they would strengthen the hands of the Secretariat in dealing with such questions. The President
\
\
*-10
of the Mandates Comwdssion xcr g~u?,i.vp1o. could onlv decide to convoke the Commission outcifo Geneva with tie consent cf a certain number of the other members. He also understood that the Permanent Advisory Cemails si on had very definite regulations on such 'ooints.
¿ec:
that	some such r	nie	as	that of	the
xund	valuable.				
Amend	ments Comrii	O o-i Oj.	on,	md the	
iat he	had tolled	Uil	e ma	tter ove	T
; in h	is hands, j	is	the	Poles ha	d
■egard	to Article	6,	there did n		.ot
-ing a	meeting.				
.or it	would be ci	on s	id er	ed wise	to
,ot ice	Taft, who i	«as	noiJ	in Lond	on,
t he :	had already	di	sous	sod this	
to come to Geneva.
The SnCRBTAEY GIBTBIAh said 1 with Hr. Sweetser, and they had agreed that it was impossible to do anything officially about the matter.
the Allocation	Com	mission, '	the	See re to.ry-
[, Bonnet to go	to	Paris for	two	or three days
It seemed des	o -p ¿Li	him that	it	was a question
of scrapping: the proposed new bar sine system altogether. Eo thought that we must take for a basis something like the present postal scheme, and secure the necessary modifications in itj putting the different Governments into different groups, in agreement with them.
-11-
Mx. BHILEPl said that he had worked out a programme along these line s.
The SkCBBTABY GEITIiRAL said that he had met Count Idol the, the new Secretary to the Albanian Commission, who was a cousin of Count Molthe on the Saar Commission, and considered that he was a most capable man for the work which he was to undertake.
Mr. JGLLCKBIST reported that all the polticial factions in tie Saar had now decided to take part in the elections for the so-called Saar Parliament, which were to be held on Sunday next.
The SECRETARY GIllITtAk said that he had found more criticism in London on the Saar, and with regard to Minorities, than on any . other questions. This was not criticism on any particular points, but was due to the impression tint the league was not perhaps being sufficiently active in handling these questions. There had apparently also been an impression of this kind, at Genoa. The Secret ary-General had, of course, explained that the League Was doing far more on minorities questions than it was required to do under the Treaties,
Professor ATTOLICO thought it was very much a question of educating public» opinion by public Council meeting?* and so forth.
M._VTbI-AEI premised to ask Miss Badziwill about a report on the meeting of the league of nations Associations at Prague.
&BA6PB OP NATIONS
*1
Distributed to Tfodor-Sooretprloe-GenerpI DirectoFe.
15
No.53.
Geneva.
MINUTES OF THE DIRECTORS MEETING HELD ON WEDNESDAY,
JUKE 28th, 1922.

PRESENT
The Secretary-General M. Monnet Professor Attollco Dr. Nitobe Professor Rappard M. Comert M, Mantcux Dr. van Hamel Mr. Colban M. Dufour Mr. Bieler
Mr. Baker (Secretary)
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY GENERAL.
The Secretary General said that it had been finally decided that the next meeting of the T.M.C. would be held in Paris on July 3rd, He had written to the President of the T.M.C. explaining the effect of the holding of the meeting in Paris on the budget of the Disarmament Section snd explaining that he would lay the question of the place where the meetings of the Commission should be held before the Commission of Control with the request that they would send their views on the matter to the Fourth Commission of the Assembly.
The date of the next meeting of the Council had not yet been ficed, but very probably it would be held on July 17th in London, and in that case he hoped himself to be able to attend. He
J
thought a meeting in London wohld be a good thing as it would / \ undoubtedly secure .large ^publicity.
He explained that during the next few days he and all the Under-Seers tar ies-Gener al would be absent from Genevs^xnd that after Dr. Nitobe's return he hoped that he, M. Monnet and. ProfesitQr^
' ,	X
Attolico would arrange together for one of them always to be in Geneva .LEAGUE PUBLICATIONS. The SECRETARY GENERAL said the question had been ¡raised as to whether all League publications should not be issued with a special League cover in a uniform colour.\ ‘The colour which h£d been proposed was the shade of grey in which the OffiU^al Journal was published.
- 2 -
The proposal was agreed to.
Ill.	THE MISSION TO PRAGUE. M. MORNST gave an account of the mission to Prague which had been carried out by himfcelf, M.Comert, Mr. Colbam,
M. Denis. Major Buxton and M. Slavik. Tjae purpose of the mission
»
was to establish direct contract with tiie various Czech administrations which were concerned with the work of the League. He thought that the results of the mission had been very happy. He found on arrival that the ideas in the minds of a great many important people concerning the League were very vague, and he thought they had been able to do much to dissipate misconceptions and misunderstandings.
All receptions and speeches had been excluded from the programme of their mission. They had spent 6 days in Prague and had seen every one of importance. He believed they had
discussed all League matters in which Czecho-Slovakia had an interest
\
with the politicians and officials whose duty it was to deal\with them. He thought the direct touch thus established could only be productive of good. They had a list of all the people they had
seen and of the subjects in which these people were each individually
\
interested. He suggested that the work they had begun should be followed up in the following ways:-	j
(a)	Documents should be regularly despatched to the peopld^ whom they
had seen on the subjects in which these people were interested.
♦
\
(b)	Some one membef of the Secretariat should, perhaps once a\,month,
%
review all the correspondence which was carried on by all sectiC^S'' with individuals in Czecho-Slovakia with the purpose of ensuring ' that no one of importance was overlooked. If it were found in'such an examination that some one had been forgotten then the attention of the proper section should be drawn to the matter rnd the necessary letters written.
(c)	When a question came up to the League in which Czecho-Slovakia was interested the preliminary work should be done by correspondence with the persons interested, the Director or other person
in charge should then go to Prague to see them'^personally
ana arrange for the further carrying out of what was agreed to.
(d)	The preliminary mise ion which he and his colleagues had carried out should he followed up by a further visit to be made in great pomp by the President of the Council ^nd the Secretary General, At this visit there should be a great number of receptions and much spc ech-making.
He believed that if some such programme as this was carried out, not only in Czechc-Slo vrlcia , but in other countries, and especially in the nev; States of Central and Southern Europe, during the course of the next year, the results might be beneficial in the extreme.
M. MOLT NET believed that the present moment was a very favourable one in these countries so far as the league was concerned. They are now terrified by the fear of new imperialisms growing up which may threaten their national existence.
Immediately after the war they believed that they might rest secure on the Fre.nco-British alliance. This hope is now disappearing and they are searching for something new, M. HOTJNET thought they might be brought to believe that the league was their one hope of a real guarantee. The States of Central Europe have in any case great bonds with the League in economic questions; and in connection with Minorities, the league has duties which vitally effect their internal politicsc
Ivio LIO III "ET believed that if the Technical Organisations of the league could produce a policy and a programme, they
/might win the warm support of these countries. He said that
to
he could not close what he had/say without referring to two special factors which had dono much to facilitate the work of their mission. The first of these was the admirable preparation of their visit, which had been carried through by M, Slavik. He ^thought M. Slavik had ohown a most admirable power of anticipation and foresight in preparing the way for them, and had done whale, was required entirely on his own initiative. He had admirably
4
comprehended his double r"01e fs a national representative and an iniern°tions 1 member of the oecretariat. In the second place Mr.
Colban's treatment of the Minorities question and his adroit handling of the very difficult matters which they involved had made a deep impression on every one at Prague, and had thus undoubtedly helped the whole conduct of the mission.
The SECRETARY GENERAL in expressing great satisfaction at the results of M, Monnet’s mission, said that he vrs sceptical as to securing active support from the countries of Central	f
1	Europe by means of the work of the Technical Organisations of the League. With regard to Minorities the question was different, as the League had duties and rights of 'which theso States must necessarily take account.
He thought there would be more difficulty in making
preliminary preparation for such visits as these in Roumanio and
Serbia than there had been in Czeeho-Slovakia. In Roumsnia, in
particular, opinion about the League was very sceptical. Nevertheless
he thought such visits should be carried through, and that they only
could/be productive of good.
IV.	MANDATES. Professor RAPPARD reported that Sir Herbert Samuel, the High Commissioner in Palestine had been to see him and had been exceedingly frank and friendly. He *'lsc reported that further mandatory reports were now being received by his section.
He was not, however, clear as to what was to happen st the next Council meeting on the subject of Mandates. So for as „he understood the matter, the existing "Ishii report" on B Mandates, with such modifications as might be required as a result of the American negotiations, would be put forward, and Viscount Ishii would again act os Rapporteur. As Viscount Ishii was in Paris, he hoped to be able to have a discussion with him. He did not yet know, however, what modifications would be required, and this caused him some difficulty,
f
-5-
ThO SECRETARY GENERAL in reply said that he thought the necessary modifications would have to be made in the last week before the Council meeting. Professor RAEPARD added he thought the changes which would be made in the B Mandates would no doubt be in accordance with the suggestions contained in the previous Ishii report, and in accordance with the wishes expressed by the American Government«
So far as A Mandates were concerned, the SECRETARY GENERAL thought that each Mandatory Power should itself act a3 Rapporteur and take full responsibility for the Mandates which it proposed.
He thought, however, that we should be prepared to point out if the proposed mandates differed from the Covenant in Any way, and to this Professor Rappard agreed»
V.	THE HAMLIARSEJOEIL CASE» Professor RAPPARD reported that on his initiative the Government of Geneva had organised a meeting of all the economic organisations of Geneva, together with members of the Government itself, for the discussion of the causes of the discontent felt at present by the population of Geneva against the personnel of the International Organisations established here» At this meeting there had been a lively discussion from which it appeared, that the causes of complaint were four;-
(a)	Bills presented by local tradesmen to members of the personnel of the International Organisations were often not paid until threats were made and action taken through the Government, and hints were thrown out by the people to whom the bills were presented that they would appeal to their diplomatic immunities«
(b)	The pack of hounds maintained by Major Buxton had created grea«
resentment,	\
V
\
(c)	Exceeding the speed limit in motor cars and hostile attitude of members of the International Organisations when stopped Ip y the police,
\
(d)	Importation into Geneva of goods in the diplomatic "vadise"
V
as a result of which members of the International Organisations
6-
did not make purchases from the local tradesmen.-
Gonsiderahle discussion ensued in which it was made clear that the case for the complaint against Major Buxton’s hounds was without substance, and in which the view was expressed that members of the International Labour Office were largely responsible for the irritation caused to the local population in the other ways mentioned, Professor ATTOLICO expressed the view that the further discussion of this whole matter moot receive full publicity and this generally egreec. to,
VI4 OTHER QUESTION-?., M,COMERS reported that he had afoptMr an admirable system of contact with the Czecho-Slovak Government Press Bureau,
Mr* BISIjER reported that Sir Herbert Ames’ tour of propaganda in Canada seemed to be proceeding very successfully«. Sir Herbert Ames had addressed a meeting at which the Governor General and the leaders of all the political parties were present, except the Prime Minister, Sir Herbert Ames was meeting the Prime Minister next day..
M, MANTOUX reported that he was also writing to Ur, McKenzie King, who was a close personal .friend of his own«
Mr. BIELER reported that Luxemburg had paid its contribution^ but on the old bai'sme; several other States had paid their contribution in accordance with the new bar erne,,
Dr, van HAl.tSL reported that letters had been received from Honduras and Guatemala announcing their determination to cease their membership of the League, as they cannot afford to pay the contribution» Dr, van HAMEL suggested that these communications should be given no publicity until the Argentine had returned to the League.
Dr.- uan HAMEL further reported that a conference was to be held cn July 3rd on the question of passports and legal facilities, and other legal questions concerning Russian refugees, over which he hopod to preside.
With regard to the International Court of Justice Dr.Tan Hamel thought its first meeting was doing rory wall. In reply to the Secretary-General who said that the dilatory methods of the Court might constitute a danger* Dr .ran Esen«l erpros38d the view that if their methods wsro slow, they would c&Iy give a greater impression <^f safety* The protest mad© by too Resident of the Court against
i
the suggestion of the British Delegation t*is.t they should aoceleraio 'their prooe&nrc, had produced an «sreollent effect, a3 it had seemed
' tq SQvchasis® the C^urt* a complete independence of spirit.
/
■ ?ir* COBBIS suggested that any momher of th$ Secretariat doing propaganda work in his own country, or elsewhere, should s$nd reports? through to M. Comer t* a esetioia and also correspondence of any general
interest concerning opinion in various States on the subject of the4
!}
A.eague.
pu
The SB3R3TiLRY GEUHRAD suggested that tho present plan by whioh oh letters wer* sent to him and he had them distributed, seemed
\-q him to work satisfactorily. This view was agreed to.
j M. CCMHRT said that it* was no vert!:-ale so ueeful for his aeotlon
r v
$o have copies of such letters, because ihon ho could charge the
members of his section with carrying on further ccrroaponienoo with /
people of their own nationality, who might havs been seen by other members of the Seoretariat. Ho thought that in this way propaganda
work should be effectively carried on by the despatch of dooumsnta^-U»-
\
Xrofcasor M'TOIICO announced that oontrary to hie expectation
\
hia section were reoeiving a number of reports on the considerations affecting disarmament and national defenoe, for which the Council had. asked members of the league. This was most satisfactory; ‘;as it would give a lot-cf jr»terial^i^>rLJthc JLcserib'ly''to work onX
\
X
X
\
MINUTES OP THE DIRECTORS'MEETING HELD OH
JULY 12th. 1522.
PRESENT:	Professor Attolico
M. Comert Mr. Nixon Dr. Rajcbroan Dr. Van Hamel Mr. Bieler M. Bonnet Mr. Abraham Mr. Halecki
Mr. Walters (Secretary)
Prof. Attolico said that he had recently circulated a memorandum on the arrangements for the Assembly ask ng for the comments of Sections. Very few repines had been received, but as the matter was of interest to all sections, he hoped that they would deal with it as quickly as possible.
The Se netary General had wtitten to him urging that all sections should be as economical as possible as regards sending Members to London. He thought it was
i
certain beforehand what	Membe rs'must go, but that
economy was possible as regards taking Secretaries and stenographers, and hoped that all sections would act accordingly.
At the recent meeting of the disarmament Commission, its new blood had been very valuable. The most striking result achieved was the approval of Lord Robert Cecil's 5 Principles of Disarmament. The Commission having previously summarily rejected the Assembly's charge to prepare a Treaty, Lord Robert had/at his suggestionf put forward these principles in preference to the Treaty based on them which he had drafted and had intended to submit. Thus' no one objected to their being discussed and though they were placed on the agenda of the hext meeting they were generally approved by the Commission. There was now enough material tc make a good show at the
MINUTES OF THE DIRECTORS’MEETING HELD ON JULY 12th. 1622.
PRESENT:	Professor Attolico
M. Comert Mr. Nixon Dr. Raichroan Dr. Van Hamel Mr. Bieler M. Bonnet Mr. Abraham Mr. Halecki
Mr. Walters (Secretary)
Prof. Attolico said that he had recently circulated a memorandum on the arrangements for the Assembly ask ng for the comments of Sections. Very few replies had “been received, but as the matter was of interest to all sections, he hoped that they would deal with it as quickly as possible.
The Se ;retary General had wtitten tc him urging that all sections should be as economical as possible as regards sending Members to London. He thought it was certain beforehand what	IP Membe rsMnust go, but that
economy was possible as regards taxing Secretaries and stenographers, and hoped that all sections would act accord ingly.
At the recent meeting of the disarmament Commission, its new blood had been very valuable. The most striking result achieved was the approval of Lord Robert Cecil’s 5 Principles of Disarmament. The Commission having previously summarily rejected the Assembly's charge to prepare a Treaty, Lord Robert had<at his suggestion, pht forward these principles in preference tc the Treaty based on them which he had drafted and had intended to submit. Thus no one objected tc their being discussed and though they were placed on the agenda of the hext meeting they were generally approved by the Commission. There was now enough material to make a good show at the
2.
Assembly. First there was material for an important discussion pn the special situation of certain countries; notobly the French Government’s declaration on this wes4 of deep interest.
•	2) There was the Se^graveN proposal including a
plan for a Conference of Governments'representatives.
3)	There was some r al work on the private manufacture of arms.
4)	and there were the proposals of lord Esher and Lord Robert Cecil, lord Esher had nearly withdrawn his plan
but in the end it was decided to appoint a xmsxsti sub-Commission to advise on it and Lord Robert’s plans together. The 5 Principles KkEKict	Si could go tc the Assembly and its acceptance of them
would be a real step.
Ié "thought hov/evt'r it would be dangerous for them at that stage to be too much worked out in detail which migh t prevent their being accepted unanimously.
'	M. Rivas Vicuna had said ±h the Commission that Dis-
armanto.1t was on the agenda of the Pan-American Conference tc be called at Santiago in March next. It was vital to link the League's action with this. He was considering whether the Assembly might not do so by adopting a resolution which, on the basis of the Principles enunciated: a) by M. Bourgeois, that disarmement must go by stages; b) by Lord Robert Cecil that to some extent it should go by Qontinents, could welcome regional or xantixsacax continental Conferences as a step towards the universal result.
M. RIVAS VICUNA further said that the representation of South American States in the Assembly would, he thought, be smaller this year than last. He gave no reasons for this.
M. Comert said his Section was making great efforts 4k S jb**4*~*
to secure wide publicitet or the~ League’s work on Disarmane nt .
Dr. Van Hamel said he wished as a p. eliminary to remark that the official notice board was filled up with unofficial
notices of little intet interest.
3
He wished to congratulate the Disarms]®nt section on the work of the Paris meeting whin h had made a great impression. Regarding the next Assembly he thought that not only the American, but the European Delegations would be less important, and the Assembly less impressive than last year unless xhx matters of interest were added to the present agenda.
As regards South America what was necessary was to find subjects of interest for that Continent. One such cuestion was that of emigration. Europe was over-populated and South America under-developed. The only re medjr was an international action which eoula also be Governmental action. The topic was a difficult one but of great interest.
Prof. Attolico said that the proper management of emigration was indeed one of the chief means of reconstructing the wor d. The I.L.C. had dealt a great deal with the ouestion, but specially from the technical point of view of the protection of the worker, not from the political or economic stani-pcint.
The meeting in general expressed appreciation of 'he great possibilities inherent in he ouestion. It was suggested that either some of the European Governments interested might draw the League’s attention to it from the point of view of European re-construction or that the South American Governments which were generally very favourable to emigration might make a move or that the Economic or still better t e Financial Cc .mi tee might urge on the Assembly the importance of the ouestion.
Dr. Ranchman said he thought the matter should be studied thoroughly in the Secretariat but that at present a Government in the position of that of Poland could not possibly make the proposal; the British
4
Y7
/ ■

lo
would
Government too/he thought he very suspicious, Mean -while we cc uld test the feelings of the South American Governments by seeing whether they would take the Russian Refugees,
This last suggestion Prof, Attolico thought a most dangerous one, Ee asked Dr, Van Hamel to begin in his section a study of the ouestion of the League's eompAence in the matter, particularly in view of t he Labour Conference of 1922,
Dr. Van Hamel further suggested the importance of getting into touch with the rreside t elect of the Argentine, in spite of the fact that he did not take up office before October, It was thought that it would be too late now to catch him in Italy, but that if he was going to England, the S, , might arrange for him to be seen by Lord Balfour and others.
Mr. Abraham suggested that the Conference proposed in the Se^grave Resolution should take place in South America.
A discussion followed on ohe Daily Press Review. It was agreed a) that one copy should be sent automatically to each section and one copy to any Mem-bur of the Secretariat who specifically asked for it;b) that the French Swiss press should in future be very sparingly ouoted; c) that articles of merely technical inter st should not be quoted in the review, but sent direct to the Section concerned.
Mr. Bieler said that the table of expenditure for the first 6 months showed that we had spent a good deal less than the budget allowed but no', less than the contributions received.
The report of the Commission of control had
now reached its final form and was being printed for
5
fl
Pi
circulation as an Assembly document. The Sansdian delegstionto the Assembly was a very strong one.
It was headed by Mr. Fielding, the leading member of the Liberal party.
\
44
LEAGUE 0?	PA? 10'! 3.
Minutes of Directors'Heeting No.55.
ERRATUM.
NOTE BY M3, WALTERS.
There i3 an error in paragraph 3 of page 2 of tho Minutes of
the Directors' Meeting hold on Thursday last, 27th July. It is
stated that there is a rule that purely private complaints on
*
Minorities questions should not he forwarded. This is "bused on a misunderstanding of what Mr. Colban said. The real position is as follows
In Minorities questions, private petitions are forwarded by tho Secretariat to the interested Government for its observations,and when these observations have been received, tho petitions together with the observations are distributed to the Members of the League for information. In other cases - i,ec where no Minorities Treaty authorises us to receive and deal with private complaints - we have no power to do sc but are obliged entirely to disregard such complaints.
32
LEAGUE OF NATIONS.
TT o ,55,
MINUTES OF THE DIRECTORS MEETING HELD ON THURSDAY July 27th, 1922.
PRESENT :
Professor Attolico Mr. Colbsn Professor Rappe rd Dr. Rejchmsn Mr Nixon M, Vsre Mr. Bieler M. Hass M, Hoden Dr. Hudson
Mr. Waiters (Secretary)
PROFESSOR ATTOLICO said thrt the only event which had taken place in Geneva during the Council Meeting was a Meeting of the Statistics Sub-Committee of the Disarmament Coranission, the Resolutions of which he thought were very satisfactory.
During the week there had also been a meeting of the Naval Sub-Commission of the Permanent Advisory Commission to discuss the technical aspect of the Segrave proposal.
That morning they had after some difficult debates reached conclusions accepted unanimously save for one abstention, conclusions consisting of an agreed programme for submission to the Internationa1 Conference called for by the Segrave Resolutions.
Mr. COLB AN said th^t his own Section had had nc great interest at the Council meeting, but that there were two points which could not be found in the Minutes to which he would like to refer. First, the Council had illustrated the importance of not ovor-doing the demand for publicity in discussions cf great importance. A satisfactory solution had been reached eventually on "A'T Mandates, but had the preliminary discussions
2
on'them been in public it wrs very doubtful if this would hove been the cose. The question at issue was not really e 1-rge one end newspaper publicity could only hrve hod the effect to exaggerating it.
(2) The mistaken title under which the letter from the Genoa Conference transmitting communications regarding their Minorities from the Hungarian and Bulgarian Governments had been originally placed bn the Agenda had lea to protestations from the four other interested Governments. These had been withdrawn after private negotiations but here again the possible danger of
publicity appeared.
3.	He referred to the problem which in his absence had been
raised by Mr. Walters, Latvian Minister and Delegate to the League, who had come and asked to see all files in the Minorities Section which were of interest to his Government.
A general discussion followed, it being agreed that though it might often be necessary or advisable to show to outside persons particular documents and even, in certain cases, expressions of opinion by Members of the Secretariat, or again in the case of Council or Assembly rapporteurs to give them, for a time, access to certain dossiers, it must in principle always be understood th^t the files of the Secretariat could not be communicated to any outside person whatsoever. Mr. Colban explained that Minorities files were, to soma degree, in a special position, owing to the rule which had grown up that
Inis was
nowhere definitely laid down in writing, but there would be no difficulty in doing so since all the Members of the Council, ss^yfrell as the interested States, agreed with this procedure. ,3*rofesscr Attolico though1: there might be an advantage in the
Secretariat protecting itself by asking the Council to consider
/
the question. If Governments thought that we were holding back
f [
documents which interested them it would create a feeling of
purely private complaints should not be forwarded
/
3
suspicion which might prejudice the manner in which the questions which really mattered were dealt with.
it was agreed that the Legal Section should in duo course consider the general question of the Secretariat dossiers. It was agreed that the showing of files affecting individuals to the Auditors and the Commission of Control was entirely s different question,
lions i cur RAPP ARP mentioned as an analogous e^se in connection with the treatment of Minorities complaints, a proposal by the British Government as to how petitions emanating from mandated areas should be dealt with. The proposal was that 'll such petitions should go to the Mandatory Power and by it be sent to the Handste Commission unless regarded as trivial or vexatious.
If the Secretariat received petitions direct they should be returned to the petitioners with an explanation that they had to go through the Mandatory. In case the Mandatory held back a. petition as trivial or vexatious, it should so inform the petitioner and send e copy of the correspondence to the Secretariat.
Dr. RAJCHMAT reported that the Council had heard an admirable report from M. Yiviani on Health questions and its Resolutions were perfectly satisfactory. It had adopted all the propositions of the Health Committee with minor exceptions. In regard to the proposed subvention from the Rockefeller Institute, the Council hrd accepted this in principle, inviting the Health Committee to study the details of the administration of the funds,
As regards the contribution of the British Government to the funds for carrying out the Resolutions if the Viarsow Conference, there had been some apparent inconsistency in the statements of the British Representative. He had announced his Government's endorsement of the recommendations, but declared that it did not
f	,
believe that lg- million pounds would be forthcoming and that the plans should be modified to deal mainly with the Russian frontiers fnc the Black Sea ports. He understood, however, that it was
-4-
further declared, that the British Government would contribute £100,000 on condition that other Governments contributed substantially, the first £25,000 to be unconditional in order to keep the Epidemic Commission in being. He feared that this decision meant that what had been undertaken at Warsaw and tried for at Genoa had failed and that all we could now do was to keep the Epidemic Commission in being, mainly as an organ for collecting information.
There followed considerable discussion on this point-It was asked whether the States on the Russian border whose budgets actually bore votes amounting to very large sums for the fighting of epidemics oould not devote the necessary proportion of those votes to the carrying out of the Warsaw Resolutions in order to secure the British contribution.
Professor Attolico emphasised that Government spokesmen in the Parliaments of nations less directly interested ought to be able to point to a great effort made by the States who would immediately profit by their contribution. Dr. R.ajchman said that, of course, he would think this over further, hut his present view was that there was no chance whatever,
The Council had without any difficulty agreed to appoint a German Member of the Health Commission.
No decision had yet been taken regarding the holding of an International Conference on sleeping sickness.
Mr. NikON said that on a motion by the Marquis Imperiali the Nansen proposal had been accepted in a modified form, i.e, the Secretariat had been instructed to prepare a report on the strength of which the Council should decide on the appointment or not of an Expert Commission. As soon as this decision hail been reached, letters had been despatched from the President of the Council and the Secretary-General to the various Governments and to various Relief Agencies,&c., asking for information. He would see that copies of the basic letter
-5-
went to all Sections. It divided the information asked for into five categories:
1.	Agr&culturol conditions
2.	Transport
3.	Vital statistics
4.	Conditions of living
5.	Any other information.
A letter was sent to the Moscow Government also and had been entrusted to Dr. Nansen for delivery.
There was general agreement that great efforts should be made to supplement these sources of information by all possible private and other sources. Amongst others the International Labour Office was of course an important source.
6.	Hr. HODSN mentioned that the publicity of the Council had been very good.
7.	H. RAPP ARP said that in his opinion the Council had been a much better organ at this meeting than any previous one.
M. Viviani had contributed notably to this result. Both as regards the ,T3!r and the "A" Mandates amendments had been accepted in many cases on the proposal of the Secretariat or of the Rapporteur, purely on the ground that they would render the Mandates more exactly consistent with the Covenant. As a result, both classes of Mandates, as confirmed by the Council, were much improved documents. On the liquor traffic question also its attitude had been excellent.
The general spirit in London official circles with regard to Mandates seemed very good.
The Permanent Mandates Commission would meet on August 1st. It would have before it all those reports which under the Covenant it had to receive, that from S. Africa having arrived that day. There were, further, reports on all the ”B,T Mandate areas as well as on Syria. He understood that all the Mandatory Powers would be represented at the sittings of the Commission when the territories under their control were under
-6-
discussion.
He would add one consent with regard to the solution of the Bulgarian frontier hands question adopted by the Counoilo At the tiP’e, both sides had seemed thoroughly pleased with the decision, but from information afterwards received he thought it was likely that as regards the Bulgarian side the satisfaction was felt only by the actual Delegates who. of course, took a certain pleasure in being entrusted with special missions of this kind« The Bulgarian Dress had, on the contrary, shown dissatisfaction..,
Professor AT TO 1,1 CO referred to a special circular which had been sent round containing a suggestion by M<. Comert for getting into touch, before the Assembly, with the various National Secretariats in &oneva0 He commended it to the attention of the different Sections.
LEAGUE OF NATIONS
31
No.56.
{Directors’ Minutes) Geneva,
August 12th, 1922.
DIRECTORS » MEETING HELD IN THE SECRETARY GENERAL’S ROOM ON 10th, AUGUST. 1922.
Present;
M. Monnet M. Nitobe Sir Herbert Ames Mr. CoIban *
M. Comert Dr. van Hamel M. Mantcux Dr. Ranchman Sir A. Salter M. Haas M. Madariaga Mr, Nixon M. Denis
Dame Rachel Crowdy
Mr. Walters	(Socretary)
M. MOFRIST expressed, on behalf of the Seorotariat, the great
pleasure which all folt at seeing Sir Arthur Salter again in their «
midst.
Before beginning to oonsider questions regarding the Assembly, he asked whether there were any questions of current interest which the Directors desired to disouss.
M# COMERT displayed a dossier of Press Cuttings received from the Czeoho-Blovak Press Bureau as a result of the arrangements made in Prague during the summer. That Bureau received articles from, us and sent us all cuttings about the League from the Czechoslovakian Press. This, he thought, was a very satisfactory state of things. The Bureau took very great interest in the matter,and it WR3 up for discussion at a Meeting which was about to take plaoo of the different Bureau*, de Pressor of the Little Entente.Re wondered whether similar results might be achieved in other fields, e.g^ amongst the Scandinavian countries.
-2-
3e	He referred to the invitation verbally given to the
Secretariat to be represented at the Inter-Parliamentary Conference which he understood some Directors would like us to accept. He felt that it would be far wiser not to do so, since it would be dangerous for the Representative to join in discussions which were sure to touch on matters before the League, and because the date, the 2bth August, was a very difficult one for us. He thought that we should ask for their Proces Verbaux and express much interest in the questions, but not be represented at it.
MR„ COLDAN said that he had foreshadowed such a reply in conversation with Dr. Lange, and this course was generally agreed on»
4.	He feared that there might be trouble from the establishment of a special stamp sur-charged Societe des Nations, which was now issued by arrangement with the Swiss Government for our official correspondence, but which we were not at liberty to sell or make available for Assembly Delegates or anybody else who would like to oolleot it,
SIR HERBERT AZIES pointed out that any applications which might be made ought to be referred for answer to the Swiss Government who had made the conditions in question, and who must face any trouble which might arise out of them,
5.	DRr VAN HAMEL said that the Institut de Droit International was meeting this month at Grenoble and was going to discuss the League. He did not, however, think
that it would be necessary for the Secretariat to be represented though we ought to ask for the Proces Verbaux, etc»
6.	DR, NITOBB said that he would write a short account of the Meeting on Intellectual Co-operation and circulate it. For the present he would, therefore, confine hirsolf to saying that the Members had shown very great keenness and interest in the work, oven in the case of one or two who had seemed rather uninterested before the Meeting. The American Members in particular had been
-3-
been excellent. Three sub-Committee3 had been appointed which would ' meet in the course of the next months, otherwise the Committee as a whole might perhaps not meet again before next summer.
MR. ftIXON 3aid that he would shortly ask the Members of the Secretariat to let hi® know what they had done with regard to securing from various sources material for the Russian famine Enquiry. In talking lately with some Government Representatives, he had noticed u fear that the Secretariat might set up a policy in this ratter which might be in disaccord with that of certain Governments.
It was important that we should avoid giving this impression.

^ Question of Invitations to be given to the Presidents,oto.,of league Commissions to attend the Assembly.
M. M0HTT3T said that he ’vas anxious to ascertain the feeling of the Secretariat on this matter which was one of great importance. Last year, a number of Commissions had been invited tQ send their Presidents with two or three other Members. Our hope had been to give thereby to the Commissions a fresh sense of life and of community with the general work of the League. This object had not been indeed attained to any great degree. At the same time, he thought that the general idea was absolutely sound and that the attempt ought probably to be repeated this year. This year we should profit from the experience of las;* year and, though perhaps we should not evolve a perfect system, nevertheless attain a greater measure of success. Apart from the general question of whether or not representatives should be invited, he wished therefore to put two questions in particular forward for discussionj i)vyho shall
Commissions ■»
In this §
Committees
continuing organisations Assembly committees
-4-
be invited; 2) how exactly is the practical cooperation between the persons invited and the various Committees of the Assembly to be arranged?
The following list of Commissions, etc», was then compiled: -
1}	Economic	
2)	Financial	
3)	Transit	
4)	Health	
•5)	Opium	
6}	Women and Children	
7}	Intellectual Co-oner?.tion	
8)	Mandates	
9 )	Commission of Control	
10)	Allocation of Expenses	
11)	Commission of Enquiry into Rear East	Deportations
12)	Disarmament Commission	
13)	Permanent Military Commission	
14)	Amendments Commission	
15)	Commission on Procedure of Conciliation	
IS)	Albanjan Commission	
17)	Saar Governing Commission	
18)	High Commissioner of Danzig	
19)	Auditor for IS21 Accounts	
.s re	garda (17) and (lid) MR, CO LAIN pointed	out that these
Representatives came last year, and would do so again this yoar;for the Council which immediately preceded the Assembly; after that they would stay until the close of the debate of the work of the Council, during which it was possible that questions relating to their work might be raised^ If, when the debate closed, there were no questions directly affecting their work still before the Assembly, their presence here would be no longer necessary,
SIR ARTHUR SALTER urged that, to get a satisfactory result, it was necessary that the Directors of the Sections concerned should have an absolutely clear and direct responsibility a) to see that the persons invited were fully and fruitfully brought into contact with the organisations of the Assembly, b) that they were not kept at the Assembly any longer than was useful»
As regards the expenses of persons invited it was agreed that
these should he paid from League funds, except a) in the case of
\
officials such as those from the Saar and Danzig, who charged these
-5-
expenses to their own special Budgets, b) in the case of persons who were already here as Delegation experts,
M. MON^et drew a distinction between two main classes of Commissions as regards their relation to the Assembly. On the one hand were those whose work had quite directly to do with the subjects on which discussions and decisions would take place in the Assembly.
These were Nos. 1,2,3* ±,{3,6,7.	9,10,12,14,15, In regard to
these Commissions, one could envisage an arrangement by which their .Presidents could take part in the actual work of the Committee of the Assembly which dealt with their subject on a clear and definite basis - Perhaps even as a Member of the Commission.
The 2nd group work, so to speak, directly for the Council
i
and are represented at the Council Meetings. In their case it would seem that their only warrant to go to the Assembly .would be a demand from the Council to thi3 effect.
M. MANTOUX said that in his view each case 'would have to be separately decided on it3 own merits. As regards the Commissioner in Albania, the only question was whether the balance of advantage for his present work lay in his staying there or coming here.
MR. C01BAN raised the question whether it was advantageous for Commissions to be in each case represented by their President or Vice-President.
SIR ARTHUR SALTER thought that we should not forget certain
considerations of a negative kind in discussing this question.
\
It to some extent detracted from tho position of the Secretariat if various continuing organisations of the League were repiesentocL at tip- Assembly by their Presidents. Further, there waa a certain risk of exaggerating the position of the President vis a vis the rest of the Commission. Certain Committees, again,consisted of national representatives and in these cases there was a danger that the representative who came to the Assembly would be tempted to express his own or his national point of view, rather than that
-6-
.of the Commission as a whole* further, most of the Commissions were advisory to the Council, and there was a risk of their becoming too autonomous or too independent ox the Council if they were separately represented at the Assembly.
To meet the last point in some degree, it was suggested that we should regard as many Commissions as possible as being in the 2nd of the two categories mentioned above, i.e. as coming to the Assembly on the request of the Council.
DR. VAN HAMEL thought that the suggestions so far made were not quite along the right lines. He thought that as a question oj detail, the proper division of Coinmisaions was into (l) those which execute the ascertained policy of the league (2) those which have made proposals or suggestions, the fate of which depends on the action of the Assembly. The latter catogory must certainly be in some way represented at the Assembly, (budget,amendments etc*)
On the general question, with regard to the Technical Commissions, he did not think that the right line to take was to invite the Presidents pr Vioe Presidents as such. The Assembly had in this question something of the feelings of a Parliament,and while ready to deal with offioials, wa3 not very ready to deal with organisations existing side by side with itself. Assembly Committees never showed much readiness to listen to the Representatives of the League Commissions for this reason. Again, the President is often not the best person to represent the point of view of the Commission; and he should not bo isolated from the rest of his oommission.Other members of it may thereby feel put aside and lose their interest.
In his view, the right line to take was to secure so far as possible the appointment of Members of various Commissions by their Governments as Delegates or as experts who oould aot as Delègues Suppléants for Committee purposes. They would have the advantage of having their position as national representative'^ olear,and Assembly Committees could not be misled by hearing views
-7-
coloured by personal or national opinions put forward as those of the various Commissions. Briefly summarised the tendency should not be to invite representatives of commissions to the Assembly; but to let as many members o^ the Commission, as possiblg be absorbed into the Assembly, during its session.
SIB HERBERT AMES said that from his particular point of view, it was very important to have at the Assembly the Presidents of those Commissions which had special Budgets, These Budgets were submitted to the Assembly as having been considered and approved by the Commission concerned and it was somewhat anomolous therefore that they should be defended before the Assembly only by the Member of the Secretariat concerned, Again, when a Member of the Secretariat faced the 4-th Commission, there was always to some extent the feeling that he ’was defending his own Section's salaries,etc» This feeling was counteracted by the presence of the President of the Commission,,
As regards the necessity of seeing that Commission representatives if invited did not spend weeks at the Assembly doing nothing, he suggested that the Budget of each Section should bear the expenses of the vi3it of its particular Commission representatives. If this were so, he thought that Sections would see that the representative did not stay too long.
Dr, NIT03E thought that the nature of the Commissions, arid their Hsmbers, must be taken into account in each case, In his own case, he would very much wish that a representative of his Commission could be invited to the Assembly,
Monsieur HAAS said that he was most decidedly in favour of the Technical Commissions of the League being represented in Assembly Committees, The Transit Commission happened to be in a fortunate position, as its President was a member of a Delegation and1 .so were a number of its members. Speaking generally, however,thq life, of these Commissions depended immensely on the resolutions which the Assembly would take, even though, from a formal point of view,
-8-
these resolutions right only be addressed to the Counoil,
Last year the Presidents of sore Technical Commissions acted as renresentativés of the Corrittee, and in no case was there any sign of their attitude being coloured by either personal or national feelings.
tfrom another point of view it was very valuable that the Members of the Assembly should realise that there are a number of organs ’which carry on the work of the League throughout the year 'When the Assembly is not in session.
The Budget question, put forward by Sir Herbert Ames, was also of very great importance.
He agreed in general with the view of Dr. Van Hamel,and thought we should consider each individual case and apply that view wherever possible.
DR. RAJCHHAN agreed that in respect of Technical Organisations it was vitally important to have the President and one or two of the members. In his view the advantage to be gained was not so much that the Commission would receive a new lease of life from, the inspiration of the Assembly, but that the parsimony and apathy of the Assembly Committee might be corrected by the keene33 of the Commission. In particular, representatives of the Commission-the President or another mu3t be Present:
(1)	When the Report of the Commission is being considered;
(2)	When the Budget is being dealt with,
MR, NIXON said he was not in favour of Commissions being represented by members of Delegations, Apart from this, he x agreed that it was essential that they should be represented before the Assembly, particularly in the hope that they could arouse discussion there Hhich might lead to the initiating of fresh policy. If this could not be achieved, some Commissions could hardlj/ be kept alive.
-9-
Monsieur MONNET referred to the proposal that there should "be a meeting to discuss Assembly arrangements, at which certain Members of Section should also bo present. It seemed, however, that Directors in most cases wished to bring the whole of their Section, and he thought, therefore, it would be better to have a meeting of Directors who would, of course, consult their Sections both before and after the meeting.
He asked all Sections to produce by Saturday evening a Stole of the special questions which they thought ought to be decided at once with reference to the meeting of the Assembly, so that all these ratters might be dealt with immediately on the Socretery-Genorel's return, l'n this connection SIR HERBERT AMES said that he thought it would be necessary to separate from the work ox the 4th Committee, which already had a very heavy agenda, the question of the Allocation of Expenses, which might go either to the 1st Committee or to a special Committee.
44
ffQNYIPENTIAL.
LEAGUE 0.? NATIONS.
Distributed to Under-	Directors’ Meeting No.57.
Secretaries General
ånd Directors.	Geneva.
Minutes of the directors’ meeting held in the secretary-general’s ROOM ON TUESDAY, 15th. AUGUST 1922.
PRESENT:
Seeretary-General M. Monnet.
Dr. Nitobe.
Sir Herbert Ames.
M. Comert.
M. Colb&n.
Professor Rappard. Sir Arthur Salter. Mr. Nixon.
Dr. Ranchman.
M. Vare.
Dr.Hudson.
Mo Haas.
M. Madariaga.
Dare Rachel Crowdy.
M. Denis. )
Mr. ''/alters )
Secretaries.
The SECRETARY-GENERAL said that it was most urgent to deal without delay with the Assembly arrangements.
I.	As regards liaison between Commissions and the Assembly, which
formed the subject of discussion at the previous meeting, he said that at the Council, when the question arose in connection with the Saar and Danzig Commissioners, he had suggested that generally speaking the precedent of last Assembly should be followed.
The Council hsd agreed, and thus we might consider ourselves free t'> act in respect of any Commission in general accord with the prece *- I last ye .r. Any new policy which might fall outside such nreeedent, would need to be submitted afresh to the Council. As regards individual cases, a separate circular has been issued.
2C Bureau of the Assembly.
Besides the 6 Vice-Presidents of the Assembly and the 6 Presidents of Committees, who, with the President, form, the Bureau, there are certain other positions which carry with them some little distinction. i'hore arc 6 Vice-Presidents of Committees and there is membership in the Committee of Verification of Credentials,and the Committee on New Proposals for the Agenda. Mr, COBBAN urged that in choosing the Bureau, an attempt should be made to secure the representation of States which had not hitherto been represented on it, e.go if last year the Petite Entente were represented by Czecho-Slovakia, it might this year be represented by Jugo-Slavic.
It was, of course, agreed that the personality of the Delegates must be one of the Chief considerations.
It was agreed to discuss the question lator in detail when the full lists of Delegates are available. The people of greatest importance, from the point of view of the work of the Assembly,are the Presidents of the siz. Committees,
Division of Assembly Agenda between the various Committees.
After discussion the 'following repartition was agreed on:-
i Sl? ns hi tutional a nd Legal Que étions ) “Questions No.6,v,17,10 and 23.
(Chief Technical Organisations)
Question No.ll.
(Reduction of Armaments)
Question No.10,
(Budget)
Questions No. £0, 22, 24,and 25.
( Social and Gen oral .Quest i. o nsj Questions No. "9,12,13,14, IB”,' IS and 27.
(Political)
Committee	N.0 ;	» 1 : —
Committee	NO ;	: 2 : -
Committee	NO ;	>3:-
Committee	No,	,4?-
Comm.i ttee	NO ;	.5:-
Committee	No,	, 6
Questions No.6,25 and Minority questions should any be added to the agenda.
-3-
The only questions on which discussion arose were Bo.27, as to which the legal Section wished it considered whether Committee No.l should not deal with this r.atter. On the understanding that the proposal which the 3ritish Government intended to make was not really of a legal character, it was decided to place it in Committee No«5. And Mo,28 (Allocation of Expenses), as to which there seemed reasons for placing it under either Committees Mod, 2 or 4.
Dr, HUDSON suggested that a circular should he sent to the Secretaries of all Committees with regard to the necessary liaison to he kept between Committees and the legal Section.
It was agreed that such a circular should he sent emphasising the desirability that the legal Section should he consulted as to the drafting of Resolutions either before they were adopted by Committees, or before those adopted by Committees were submitted to the Assembly, or both»
A discussion followed with regard to the Resolution adopted by the lest Assembly to the effect that questions dealt with by other Committees involving expenditure, should not be submitted to the vote of the Assembly before being dealt with by Committee No.4 from the budgetary point of view.
The SECRET1RY-GENERA1 pointed out that this rule was intended to apply only to proposals involving expenditure not at present proxrided for in the Budget, since all expenditure provided for in the Budget is from the beginning of the Assembly duly submitted to the 4th Committee. It was, ox course, undesirable -nor did he think it probable,- that the 4th Committee should in such cases reopen the discussion on the substance of the proposal submitted. They were there to deal purely with the budgetary aspect of the question^
It was decided that supplementary budgets which can now be foreseen, or budget iters which the Commission of Control had for
for some reason not been able to pass at its last meeting, should be submitted to it for approval at its forthcoming meeting, so that they would be presented to the 1th Committee with the approval of the Commission ox Control. These items were :
(1)	Additional expenses of the Transit Section, arising out of the Oenoa decisions.
(2)	The Budget of the Economic and Financial Section.
(3)	The Budget for the Commission on the Deportation of 70 men and Children.
As regards the Secretaries of the six Commissions, the SECRETARY-GENERAL asked Directors to consider this question, and make proposals to be dealt vith the following week.
The consideration of possible Rapporteurs to the Assembly was also postponed.
M. MONRET said that he was drafting a note with regard to the question of the permanent position of Technical Organisations of the League, which it might be desirable to deal with at this Assembly.
The SECRETARY-GENERAL said he thought it should be borne in mind that the Assembly would certainly not delegate its powers in this question either to the Council or to any International Conference which was not completely representative ox the League.' Commission Haeting3 between now and the Assembly,
Hr. HTJSTOTT was asked to be present '/hen this question was under consider?tion.
It is clear that the Secretariat will be in a position of greet difficulty during the period immediately preceding the Assembly, 0 'In’ to the fact that besides the Council, there are meetings -3ore of them involving a number of Sub-Commissions- of many league Commissions, including the Permanent and Temporary Armaments Commissions, the Commission of Control, .Opium Commission,Economic and financial Commissions (on September 4th),
Transit Commission,etc.
-5-
It was agreed:
(1)	That it would he necessary to explain to these Commissions that the Secretariat could unfortunately not supply them in the usual full degree with secretarial assistance; explaining why.
(2)	That Sections would, in nearly every case, have to accept the responsibility of keeping the minutes of their own Committees.
(3)	That as regards Interpreters, there could only be ono interpreter for each meeting«
(4)	That a number of Directors would have to be asked to give up their rooms for meetings.
(5)	That Sections must use every effort to employ their own secretaries and stenographers for Commission work, and to avoid adding to the burdens of the Pool. In this connection Mr,,Huston explained that if Sections could supply stenoils, the Roneo Department would be able to cope with the actual work of duplication, but that it could not undertake the stencilling.
9.	Mr. HUSTON raised the question of the Official Reports of the
Assembly meetings,
The SECRETARY“GENERAL pointed out that this matter had already been settled in principle, and asked Mr. Huston and M. Yigier to make the necessary arrangements in consultation with the financial Direc tor.
LEAGUE 0? NAT I Oil? ,
NO. 58.
Geneva.
August 24th, 19?
DIRECTORS ’ MEETING HELD IN THE SECRETARY GENA REAL'S * 1
ROOM ON 10th AUGUST, 1922.
Present
Secretery-Ceneral.
M. Monnet.
Dr. Nitobe.
Sir Herbert Ames.
LI. Comert«
Dr. Ranchman,
Professor Rappard.
Sir A* Salter.
Mr„ Ilixon,
Dame R: oh el Orov;dy.
Dr. Hudso'n.
11. Haas.
M. Madariaga.
Mr. Gilchrist.
1.1.	liantoux.
LI. Vigier.
Mr. Huston.
Mr. falters (Secretary)
1.	The SECRETARY-GENERAL said he wished to propose
one change in the work of the Committees, as drawn up at the last meeting, namely, that the question of Intellectual Co-operation should be transferred from Committee No. 5 to Co imitte No. 2, in order that the amount of work of the two Committees might be more equal.
This proposition was generally agreed to.
As regards the Secretaries of the Committees -a subject which had been left over last week - he
2.
-2-
30id that a distinction should be drav.n between the person to be responsible for the strictly secretarial work and the member of the Secretariat v.ho should, so to speak, be "in charge" of the rork of the Committee. This distinction applies to all the Committees, in his opinion, save the First, of which the actual secretarial work ought, perhaps, to be in charge of someone possessing expert legal knowledge and knowledge of the constitution of the League. He proposed, therefore, for the various Committees as follows
Committee	NO. 2:	Dr. Van Hamel to be Secretary nid
		also ^in charge". (For "Allocation of Fxpenses", Sir A. Salter to nominate a member of his section for both purposes).
Committee	NO. 2:	II. Denis to be Secretary,
		Dir A; Salter and Dr. Nitobe "in charge".
Committee	i—* i o •	M. Aghnides or M. Madariaga ’to be Secretary.
		Professor Attolioo "in charge"*
Committee	NO. 4:	Hr. 3ieler to be Secretary.
Sir Herbert Ames "in charge".
All Directors and Heads of Departments to be prepared to come in person to the Committee vhen their Budgets were discussed: and apart from Budget questions
M. Mantoux to represent the Admin is t ration Co mni 11 ee .
Mr. Colbon to represent the Appointments Committee.
Professor Attolioo for the Salaries Adjustment Committee.
(Sir Herbert Ames to worn those whose presence would be required twenty-four hours in advance).
-3-
Coramittee IIP. 5,:	Major Johnson to be Secretary, with
' '	special assistance from Dame
Rachel Crov.dy at the early meetings.
Dame Rachel Crowdy and Dr. Nitobe to be "in charge”.»
Dr. Nansen would, no doubt, attend for his own special questions*
Committee NO. 6: . la* de Montenach to be Secretary,
’	~	subject to M. I.I'.ntoux's agreement.
M. Mantoux and Hr. Colban fin charge"
3.	A discussion followed as to the detailed arrangements for the Committees.
(a)	It was agreed that it was very important that the same interpreter, or interpreters, should act for each Committee throughout the session, a change in the middle being very prejudicial to the work of the Committee.
(b)	Each Committee should also have a Documents Officer,
to work in liaison with the Receipt of Docnments Branch under Dr. Dixon.
(e)	On the question of whether or hot Verbatim Reporters should be present, it was agreed, after detailed discussion;
(i)	That no Verbatim Report of Committee Meetings
should be taken..
(ii)	That the Minute-Writer should have one French
and one English stenographer whom he could instruct to take down verbatim any statement of special importance.
(iii ) That the Minute-’-'riter should be fully
responsible for keeping the Proces-Verbal..
Mr.. Huston was instructed to prepare a note
shewing what would approximately be the expense of
providing full Verbatim records for Committees in
addition to the minutes.
— A—
Ea ch Committee would, therefore, have besides the members of the Secretariat in charge:
1 Secretary.
1 ilinute-V. riter.
1	Louument Officer.
1 or 2 Interpreters.
2	Stenographers.
Pull details and lists of names to be drawn up as early as possible by those concerned, meeting under the authority of Professor Attolico.
M. CQL^HT added t :at he would delegate one member of the Information Section to follow the work of each Committee. He greatly hoped that all the meetings v;ould be public.
4.	Mr. HUcTON explained the new- arrangements for the accommodation of the Secretariat at the Assembly Hall.
It was generally agreed th't the presence of members of the Secretariat on the platform should be reduced to the absolute minimum possible,
5.	The S- G,i"T	said that he would be available at his
room in the Secretariat every day during the '.ssembly ft 9.30,
\ hen all Committee Secretaries and others concerned should be present for report and consultation.
6.	The SEC ?. IT/. EY-OEHE 3 AI said that as regards the general
situation, while international affairs indeed looked very black * at the moment, he had no fears for the League. He felt we must concentrate on carrying out, in the best possible way, the work which lay before us, and in particular on making the Assembly the greatest possible success, and thereby increasing our credit, especially by comparison with some other Conferences.
-5-
M, IvLOCTET agreed, adding that then gh the Assembly agenda looked anything but brilliant, there was no doubt that in the minds of Governments the League was more firmly established than ever, and that if for the time Doing we eould keep our machinery in good order all would bo well.
Professor RAPPAFP raised the question of wnat attitude the Secretariat should take if consulted by any Governments to the desirability of raising at the Assembly any burning question of international affairs which was not now on the agenda.
It was generally agreed that: (1) if a Government, in full realisation of its responsibility, instructed its Delegation to raise any question, such as the admission of Germany or the Reparations question, this could only bo for the good of tho League; but that: (2) it would bo quite impossible for any member of the Secretariat, if asmed to express an ojjinion, to consent to do so in any way.
7t	M, MAhTOUX said there was one question of groat
importance to the Assembly which he wished to raise, namely, the importance of keeping it quite clear that the Delegates were strictly Government representatives, and that their vote, and even their expression of opinions, must be regarded as binding on their Governments. If any other theory were to grow up, it would be the destruction of the Assembly, and this was, therefore, in his opinion, a point which the Secretariat should koep in mind and act on wherever occasion arose. In particular, the
-6-
tendency of the Assembly to register "vooua" instead of roncOutions was, he thought, a most disastrous one. The Genoa Oonfcrcnco had indeed done the sane, but in doing so it was acting in an absurd manner. A Conference of duly accredited Government repiesentatives eould take effective resolutions and nothing else*
M. LOIiNET strongly supper ted the view of M. Mantoux.
SIR Hf!EI3EHT Ai.iES. ouuportod the same view, adding that it was of special importance that it should prevail in regard to the settling of the scale of contributions.
Dr. HUDSON said that the force of Assembly Resolutions was weakened cither by the adoption of "voeux" or by the theory that, to bo effective, they needed a protocol to be drawn
up and signed ard ratified by Governments individually.
The S e o r e t a. .• y- G e nor a 1 said that he thought everyone would agree that the votes in the assembly must express the attitude of the Governments. This was true also of the attitude talon up by Delegates in Committees, for viiore tney expressed only their individual views, false situations might be created.
As regards the adoption of "voeux", his opinion was that there were certain practical advantages in this. It
was certainly desiraole that Assembly resolutions should have a binding force t-f their own, and much the most serious danger from this point of view lay in the attitude previously
adopted by the French Government to the effect taat they were not binding unless embodied in a formal Convention. This view, he the’’ght, was quite wrong, and he was glad to say that ho thought it was losing ground. The sjstem of "voeux", on the other hand, got rid, to some exient, of the
-7-
difficulty that Y/hen one cn untry objects to a proposal it has, by the Unanimity rule, power absolutely to destroy it.
The "voeu" got round this and enables, a majority of Governments represented to use the Assembly to come to an agreement for common action, even where a small number of members dissented. He did not think that it could be shown that in many* cases the Governments whose Delegates had voted for a voeu had subsequently refused to act on it. The case of the "voeu" regardiiig Limitation of military Expenditure was a rather special one. He proposed that
where "voeux" were adopted at the forthcoming Assembly, wo should,, at the Fourth Assembly, present a tabulated statement
shewing which Governments had voted for them and what effect they had given to their vote.
M. IvAHTOUX said that he still held to his original point cf view. To moet such a case as that referred to by the Secretary-General, he would suggest a third type of Act, which sheuld be called something like: "Proposition approver by the following Governments, w.aieh form a majority of the Assembly:" j
The SEOEETARY-GENERAL asked the Legal Section to make a study of the question.
LEAGUE OP NATIONS
!0
pistributod to
rrid o r -B o c r o t nr i o s -G on or a 1	Directors Hooting No. 59.
^d^Dirootors .
Geneva,
October 14th, 1922,
MINUTES OF DIRECTORS MEETING, HELD ON mDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11th, 1922.
?r oso.nt:
S o c r et a 17/ -Gen or al,
Dr. I: i to b c,
Sir Herbert /ones,
Mr. Abraham,
Mr. Nixon,
1.1.	Madariaga,
Hr. Swoetsor,
Dane Rachel 6rowdy,
Col. Hiam,
Dr. van Hamel,
M. Catastini,
Mr. Pourtalec, (Acting Secretary).
The SECRETARY-GENERAL said that he expected a considerable amount of work to devolve on the loaguo in connection with the Hear East settlement. According to information received the Peace Conference would bo held very shortly, probably early in November. The questions interesting the League were those touching the Straits and Minorities. It was difficult as yet to foresee what form the intervention ox the League in these matters v/ould take . The Secretary-Gen oral considered it both unlikely and undesirable that a military force under the oorirol of the League should bo established with a view to enforcing the freedom of the Straits, In his «pinion some such arrangement as that concerning the Aaland Islands should be concluded, that is to say the Straits should be do-militarised and the fortifications demolished under League supervision and subsequent control.
As regards the protection of minorities in Thrace ;.md elsewhere, it seemed desirable to appoint a High Commissioner who would reside in Const-¡ittinoplo and who woald be empowered to
Bond commissions ox enquiry on the spot. There remained the question of Turkey 'becoming: a Member of the league. This would either have to bo done at the ne::t Assembly or at a special mooting of the Assembly convened for that purpose.
The Eecretary-General feared that should important aspects of the Hear East question be referred to the league in the near future his journey to the Little Entente countries would have to be postponed.
As regards Austria, the plan of reconstruction as drawn up by the League seemed to have been fairly well received in that country, although at present the Socialist Party was raising some ' opposition. The Chancellor had decided to carry the thing thr cugh at all costs. It was highly desirable that the Commission of Control should start worh as soon as possible. The most difficult problem which would immedic tely have to be faced was the dismissal of a great number of State employees. A neutral High Commissioner had not yet been feund, although II. Attolico in homo, Sir Arthur Salter in London, .and II. Honnet in Paris had been enquiring as to possible candidates.
The Secretary-Cone ral said that the exact d..to of the next Council mooting could not as yet bo foreseen, as it would doubtless depend on the turn taken by the affairs in the Hear East. Unless something unforeseen should occur there would probably be no Council meeting until the beginning of December.
M. ILADAPvIABA said that he still had a few questions left over from tho Assembly which must come before the Council.
SIR II l'BEh-T AICS stated that he also had one or two
questions for the consideration of the Council, although ¿nothing very urgent.
-3-
DRé NITOBE hoped "that the Sub-Committee on Intellectual Co-oneration would be able to meet before the end of this year.
SIR HERBERT AMES had been informed that the labour Office wished the Commission of Control to meet again before the end of this year to discuss the Pensions Soheme.
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL considered that as at present there were several schemes under discussion, it would be preferable to wait until one plan had been decided on and thoroughly worked out before submitting the matter to the Commission of Control.
MR, S'-VEETSER proposed that the Information Section should be kept posted as to the departure of members of the Secretariat on leave or on missions. In this way direct communication between the Information Section and its correspondents in countries which the members of the Secretariat intended to visit could often be established with valuable results.
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL agreed to this proposal and said that he would cause a memorandum to this effect to be circulated to Sections.
45
LEAGUE 0? NATIONS
pi Sit'!* ibuted to
dljr-Secrgtaries General
Directors Meeting
Li-'11-."1-
g^KrpIrectora.
MINUTES OF DIRECTORS' I,TESTING
held on We tine s day , October lb th, 1922 at 3. p. it. .
PRESENT:
The Secretary-General Dr. Nitobe Sir Herbert Aires Dr. van Hamel M. Denis
Daire Rachel Growdy Mr. Catastini M. Mantoux Mr. Nixon Mr. Sweetser Major Abraham
Secretary:	Captain ’Valters.
which had arisen since the last meeting was the receipt of a certain number of telegrams from Dr. Nansen, saying that in connection with the refugee problem it anoeared absolutely essential to got agreement between the Greeks and Turks on :
(1)	An inter-emigraticn arrangement on the lines of the Greco-Bulgarian territory.
(2)	Exchange of prisoners and civilian hostages.
He was accepting certain responsibilities in connection with these two necessities with the full support of the Allied High Commissioners and of General Harington so far as technical assistance was concerned. He hoped, to have Mustapha Hemal1s agreement al30, but before definitely meeting him on the question he was anxious to discuss the matter, in particular, with Mr. Colban,
Ic
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL said that the only matter of importance
-3-
T’ne Secretary-General had replied saying that as Dr.Nansen considered these questions as essentially linked up with the question of refugees and the High Commissioners promised the support of their national representatives on the Council, he thought Dr. Nansen must act as he saw fit without waiting for tho , definite instructions of the Council, and that Dr. Nansen ought*
(l)	To get a written agreement between the Governments.
(2Ï Expenses must be borne by the Governments concerned.
Mr. Colban wa3 proceeding immediately to meet Dr.Nansen and would advise whether it was necessary to send any one else, in particular any one from the Legal Section as suggested by Dr.Nansen.
In reply to M. Donis, the SECRETARY-GENERAL said that it must, of courso, remain cloarly understood that the responsibility for the safety of the Minorities in Thrace remained definitely and fully with the Allies and could not be laid on Dr.Nansen.
'DAME RACHEL CRORDY asked how the contributions to Dr. Nansen’s funds were getting on. It apneared that payment had been made of £16,000 from the British. Government and of about £13,000 from others, mainly Canada and Greece.
A discussion followed on the question of the audit of various fundg| connected with the work of the League hut which did not form part of its budget.
SIR HERBERT AMES said that we had full control as regards the Tynhus contributions but none at all over the monies administered on behalf of Dr.Nansen for the Repatriation of Prisoners, Russian Refugees and Near East Relief. These funds were administered by Messrs. Hamilton and Lodge in Paris. There was no reason to doubt that they were extremely well managed, but the managers took tho view that it was for them to arrange the moment for auditing and to satisfy the various Governments,eto, which supplied the funds.
-3-
It was pointed out that any doubts as to the admini str a t i c n of auoh funds were hound to redact on the League, and further, that there had been doubts particularly in connection with the Marine relief which, of course, had no connection whatever -;ith the League•
DR. NIT0B2 referred to the forthcoming publication of a quarterly bulletin of information regarding international organisations. This publication had been postponed because it was desired to have the full assent of Messrs. Lafontaine and Ctlet who, in the past, published this information in their periodical ”La Vie Internationale”. Now that it seemed hopeless to expect that periodical to reappear in the near future, they had assented and the first number would appear shortly. It would contain accounts of meetings,etc., supplied by about twenty organisations.
MR. CATASTINI said that the British Government had officially oom.munioated the text of the Treaty with Irak and that as their previous notification on the subject had been circulated to all Members of the League, and as the text had been published, he thought we should communicate it to all the Members of the League.
This was agreed.
IR, CATASTINI added that the text was of suecial interest from, the point of view of the eventual independence of the countries under ”A” mandates.
fll HERBERT A:I5S showed a new document covering the decisions of the Assembly with regard to the payment of subsistence allowance and travelling expenses to members of the Commissions.
Ho had asked all Directors concerned to bring its contents to the kno’wledge of all individual members of the commissions with which they had to deal.
“4-
6c	HE, S'^EETSEH. referred, to the forthcoming visit to Canada
and the United States of II, Albert Thomas, The Secretariat ought perhaps to see whether it could not in any way help on the 3UGC053 of this trip.
the	THU SECRETARY-GEYTPAL agreed and said that he would discuss 5 matter with II, Thomas,
7,	STY HUMBERT AHE3 raised the ouestion of the possibility
of accenting an offer, if one were made, to give the League
a ]	[library „ TH^ SECRETARY-11 SEPAL said that he thought it could only
be	accented if the donor would endow it at the same time.
Otherwise it would be too great a liability.
LEAGUE OP NATIONS
COlfP IDEGT IAL
j)istri.buted to Und er-
Soc rot a:: lea- -(ren-eral ibfd~ Hi:-: ectors«.
Directors Meeting Eo,51
Geneva, loth November 1922,
MiaUTJxl OF IIH5CT0HS 1 MF3TIKG, HELD_0N W3 -115SLAY, I<JVE-iBSP. 8 bh. 1922,
Present:
Secretary General, Hr. liitobe,
Pmf, Attolico,
Sir Herbert Ames.
.M. Happard,
„I. Man t ouz,
M, van Hamel,
Lr r	Haj chman,
Mr.	Nixon,
Mr.	Cummings,
Col	, Hyam,
Mr,	Gilchiist
M, de Pourt&lcs (Acting Secretary)
i #	TBF SFCFFTARY G3UFHA1 said that he had caused a detailed
account of his visit to Belgrade to be circulated and he would therefore only mention this subject very shortly at that meeting,
The members of the Secretariat had received a very cordial welcome on all sides. The Minister of Foreign Affairs,	Hintchitoh
with whom the delegation had naturally oome into closest contact was strongly in favour of a policy of peaceful interior development. Although the League is seldom mentioned in the press, yet whenever a•'external complication arisest there is generally a feeling that the issue in question should be first submitted to the league.
In the course of the Secretary General’s conversations ’with ivl. Kintchitcfc the Lausanne Conference was discussed and the latter stated that Jugoslavia desired that the previous agreement for arrangements as to the use of the port of eslonika and the railway leading to this town should be fulfilled, As regards the Straits, LI. Hint chit ch was of the opinion that small inter-allied detachments should be maintained there. There apparently was a a certain disappointment that the Serb Croat and Slovene State had uot been elected as a non-permanent member of the Council. The wish was also exrressed that the Minorities Treaties should be
-2-
Thc explanations which the members of the delegation were able to furnish on these two latter points seemed to be considered satisfactory.
The first news as to the fascist! successes in Italy has caused some anxiety as the Jugo Slav Government did not know what changes of policy might be intended, however later information had calmed apprehension and id. Nintchitch was most definite in his statement that the Serbian Government had done and would do ail that lay in its p-ov or to avoid any risk of conflict.
Lastly, as regards Albania the attitude adopted was quite conciliatory. There seemed to be a strong desire that Albanian independence should be maintained, but the Secretary General was warned that financial assistance would be required in the near future if a dangerous state of unrest was to be avoided.
2.	,.'ith regard to the Lausanne Conference, nothing definite
had yet been heard. No preparation of the technical details seemed as yet to have been carried out and there remained therefore the possibility that the Secretariat might suddenly be called, upon to provide some of the staff required. The date was as yet unsettled. If, in accordance with the wish expressed by the British Government, the opening of the Conference were postponed to November 27th., the Secretary General would go to London about the 20th of this month to discuss with the Foreign Office different questions such as the representation
of Great Britain on the Council and matters arising out of the transfer
%
of League work from the Offices of the Cabinet to the Foreign Office.
5.	According to reports received. Dr. Nansen ‘was negotiating
with representatives of the Angora Government for the- exchange of population between Turkey and Greece. A full report on this subject from elr. Colban was expected daily.
4*	PROFESSOR ATTOLICO gave his views cn the recent cabinet
crisis in Italy. He considered, that as far as foreign policy was concerned. the Russolini Government realising fully the part played by Italy in the war would seek to assert itself more national affairs.
actively in inter-
-3-
Its attitude towards the League was not yet olear though judging by former declarations it could hardly be hoped that It would regard the league in a very friendly spirit. On the other hand the presence in the Cabinet of representatives of the democratic party must be regarded as a more favourable omen.
hi. HAP?/?.D stated that M. Catastini had been called to Rome to take up the position of Chef de Cabinet to the Minister of Posts. An arrangement had been reached by which M. Catastini would be tcQCor&rily replaced, though his position in the Secretariat would he held open for him.
M. ATTOLICC agreed that M. Catastini would be able to render great service to the League by remaining in Rome until the attitude of the Government to the league was more clearly defined. 5.	Mr. GILCHRIST stated that LI. Resting h&d now concluded
his summary of all minority questions which had come before the Council.
5.
¡OLOUSL HIAM vave a short account of the work of the
International Railway Conference which had been convened in Paris as a result of decisions taken at the Genoa Conference. He added that the League representative had been very warmly 'welcomed.
7^	Mr.IIIXOn said that the work of the Learie delegation
in Austria was progressing favourably. The Commission would have to remain in 7ienna until the arrival of the High Commissioner.
The only opposition to the scheme of re-organisation was that raised by the Socialist Party. Belgium, Spain and S' itzerland had agreed to take a share in the outstanding 20y> of the guarantee
fund
J: 5
ihagud op nations.
coup'iraw,
distributed to Unùej:-SecreTario s-TTenorâl and directors.
directors 'Meeting No. 6f<
Geneva, 16th November 19!
MINUTDS OP DIRECTORS1 ¿'NET IN G HELD ON WEDNESDAY.
November 15th, 15hi.
Present: - Secre tary-Ger.era 1.
Prof e s s or Attolico.
Pi. Nitobe.
Sir Herbert Ames.
Dame Rachel Crowdy.
Mr. Gilchrist.
Mr. Ninon.
II. Denis.
Professor Nappard.
I/I. LUntoun.
Dr. Hulot.
M. Haas.
Hr. Me Minn on Wood.
Mr. Sweetser.
Mr. I7aIters ' (Deeretary)
1. TlIE SECRETAT. Y-GDI!DEAL said that the matter of most interest at the present moment was perhaps the negotiation which Dr. Nansen had had in Constantinople.
As Commissioner for Refugees, Dr. Nansen had. come to the conclusion that a scheme of e:.change of populations was
the only way of roally solving the problem. The Greek Gove ment originally proposed such a scheme, and the Allied High Commissioners had ashed him to take it up and, if possible, conclude an agreement between the two Governments before tne Peace Conference,. Dip. Nansen accepted the charge, and asked i.Iustapha lieaial to discuss the matter with him, The letter
:n-
rerlied that he
agreed in principle but tint lie was moving from
2
place to place, and therefore instructed his representative
Hamid Bey
in Constantinople/to negotiate*
Dr. Hanson then drew up a memorandum of the points which the agreement should contain, based to some extent on the existing Greco-Bulgarian Convention« This memorandum provided for reciprocal emigration. Dr. Hansen’s main preoccupation was to get bach the Greek male hostages detained by the Turks. The refugees at the present moment were mainly women and children, and this made the question of their relief doubly difficult.
Hamid Bey then stated that ho oould only discuss a Convention based on compulsox-y exchange, and including Constantinople. This Dr. Hanson said he must refer to the Greek Government. That Government and the three High Commis si oners unanimously declared that compulsory evacuation of Greek subjects from Constantinople was utterly impossible, and would ruin Constantinople and destroy Western commerce with the city.
Dr. Hansen meanwhile proposed to Hamid Bey to begin dealing with the mass of detail which was inevitable in drawing up the Convention, whether it were based on a voluntary or a compulsory scheme. Hamid Bey reolied that he was under instructions to proceed to Lausanne, and could not discuss the question. His remplaçant would do so when he arrived a few days later.
Dr. Hansen then addressed to the Angora Government, through Hamid Bey, a memorandum pointing	out that he	had	waited for five
weeks in order to .negotiate this	matter with	the	Turks, that	he
could not continue to wcit indefinitely, aad asking for a definite reply as to whether the Angora Government would negotiate on the basis of voluntary emigration or not.
This note was despatched ten days ago,	and	no rq±y has	yet
been received. In view of this	fact Dr. Hansen	had written	a
report, whicii will at once be circulated to the l[embers of the League, urging the necessity of dealing with the question, and
-3-
I suggesting that it be taken up at Lausanne either as a part of the general negotiations, or spearately in consultation with him. Should this not he done, ho feared that a general exodus ox the Christian population from the whole of Turkish territory might to seen tefore long, either as a result of open action hy the Turkish Government, or because their existence was made impossible in various ways « This situation was already in being in Asia Minor. Advance copies might perhaps be sent with advantage that day to London, Paris and Home.
In reply to a question by II. MAHTOÜ he said that Dr. Nansen [would stay here, or at Lausanne, till at least a week after the opening of the Conference.
2. As regards the Lausanne Conference in general, lie thought it important that the Secretariat should adopt an attitude of restraint, and he would ask that, no member of the Secretariat should go to Lausanne during the Conference without informing him beforehand. If the Directors agreed, he proposed to issue a circular on the subject.
This was generally agreed to.
Ho hoped wo could count on boring kept fully informed, so fax-las this could properly be done, ox the events of the Conference,
As regards the roverse process, the Delegations had received various notes from our side on Minorities, Political., Transit and lealth questions.
T. The Austrian situation looked brighter at the moment.
Although the High Commissioner had not yet been named, it seemed likely that nomination would take place shortly. The various ?owers had nominated their members of the Commission of Control, and its composition would, he hoped, be published soon. At present >hc Power had requested that its nomination should be kept ioni ident^al.
eal "c e :t ei-
In Austria itsel
i.e r-;
elf,	■> %" i	H O o t ■; o
ticn	f '■"-i r • • v a*— i. il	a much
Q\,'	rc reso	to rev
CO,.
:t as rchar's the outs candi nn 20cfo to be guaranteed by the -Icnhers of the Lea-tie, but in view of the improved situation in VI runa, l-e felt he e ful on this noint.
4.
fin	11525 ashed . hether there *„• oulcl be
objection to ashing Dr. Hansen to address the Secretariat on the Beluree position,
•	3BCBBIfflY-lhITBRAL said that if he could
entirely avoid the political side, and deal only with
rel	ief, there	1.0'
alt:	hough it v/a	rv
bet	ween the tw	0 .
0 •	EUL05?	Kj
Bcr	sonnel, the	JL
Its	second eta	~;e
Dr.	Raj chraan v	CJCiS
and	reported a	ha
PR» P.ULQg said that as reyards Inc lianas of Sanitary
irst stao-e in Bel pi un vas urcecoding smeoti
-17.
beyinnin- in Italy cn ITov ember LCth.
-"5 *1" *1 L-
ooi/i o
act ory,
O 0	RRO.vSo.-BB B.	a: .bbd	vished	to dra;	attention to the
pcc	sible effect,	from the	point	of vie-	of the league, c
any	action by the	Lausanne Conf		orence i	n ro -arc to the
•A*	x-.icino. as e s, me.	a pen or	Cl dis	cus si on	on this matter
: oilowed.
	It	-. as urged by
c nat	any	alteration o
Counc	il’s	action in Ji
as a	b lo';	‘co 'Crio i.anc «
D and IB.
situation created by the
seen mo. a revelation os t ic
/inno tonco
i c ¿once o_
lea~ue. The de Tacto situation vas that
these territories *-ere nor- being administered on behalf of the League, and it v;ould be disastrous Tor this situation to be changed by a body -oreign to the League.
done in the natter :fculd be to heept it as prominently as ve could before the various Delegations.
was only one amongst a number of points in vhich the work oh the league and the vorh of the Oonference came into contact. On this, as on other matters, he thought it was necessary for us to use the greatest discretion, enc! to keep contact with I-ausanne . s ve had done v.ith vrevious Conierenoes. By such a policy ve should ensure that the result of the Lausanne Conference was to strengthen, and not to ’weaken^ the League.
TIE jIICULT-hlY-C-EIIERA! said that he agreed - -ith this point of view.
As regards the Mandates, the territories to vhich they applied had never been defined or considered by the Council, and in his view (which was combatted by wROfEdCOR A.i_u_AD), ohe Council am. ¿he As^oxioly had c. la ays sully realised that in determinin' the terms oh the Mandates, the Council was acting under reservation of the de ixura position vhich vas that 'the sovereignty of these territories had never been transferred from the Ottoman Empire, and that they were, or wtrnld be, administered first militarily and then in accordance with the terms of the Mandates, pending the final settlement. The terms of the Mandates -.ere valid as between
the Mandatory and
distinction should be / drawn
me.
-o -
dr arm "between the possibility of change in the terms of the Ma&date and the question oi the frontiers oi the territories to which they applied. If, _or example,
Syria '/ere re-ceded to the Pitrhs, any resentment which public opinion might feel would rightly be directed not against the league, but against the parties to the Lausanne Conference. If any attempt './ere made to change the terms as defined by .he Council, the Council would certainly have to consider ¿he matter.- He ashed that Professor Rupward. in consultation with Hr. McIIinnon Hood and Mr. Sveetser, .ould prepare a sta.temcnt on the subject from the point of view bosh of strict law and public opinion.
V. MR. ShH^xSMR said tha.t he expected to receive frequent enquiries from journalists, perhaps by telephone from Lausanne, as to the League vie of various propositions made to the Conference. He suggested that a committee should be sea up in the Secretariat to follow the Conference, and assist the Information Section in an suer in such questions.
PER .ECRLP.fcY-rHlLiR-iL and PROCESSOR ..TPOLICO opposed this suggestion, «.-nd urged tha.t the only answers vhich could be "iven would be to point out what the League had actually been able to do in amalgous circumstances.
LEAGUE OH HATIOKS
') O
Directors Meeting1 Fo.63,
i
Geneva,
November 24th, 1922.
MINUTES Of DI EEC TOES 1 MEETING. EEID ON WBDITiSDAY,
NOVCMBSB 22nd . 1922.
Present:
Seeretary-General,
Dr. llitobe,
M. Colban,
Sir Herbert Ames,
Dame Rachel Crowdy,
Dr. van Hamel,
LI. lian toux,
LI. Conert,
Sir Arthur Saltor,
Kr. Nixon,
II. MacLariaga,
M. Bonnet,
M. do Pourtales (Acting Seeretary}.
1.
The SECRETA- Y-GENERAL said that the financial situation
2 .
of the league for the three first months of next year would be a difficult one in view of the fact that funds were at present low and that payments of contributions wore not to be expected before t ¡e month of April. It would therefore be necessary to have recourse to a short term loan which could probably be refunded in September. In the meanti ie it would be desirable that all section should as far as was compatible with the successful continuation of the work of the League cut down all expenses. Meetings of Commissions (mandates etc.) should wherever practicable be postponed till the second quarter of 1923.
The financial Director would discuss the best methods for seeming economy with heads of departments.
In view of the new situation which had arisen in the U. Sr as a result of the late elections, he had decided in consultation
~2~
with Hr, Sweetser that the latter should, undertake a short mission to the U.A. There were many independent organisations wording in favour of the league in that country hut there appeared to he little co-ordination in their efforts,
3.	11« do Aadariaga called attention to the forthcoming mooting of
the Congress Ilondial do la Pair at the Hague. He understood that questions concerning disarmament would form an important item on the agenda of this mooting, and suggested that a member of the disarmament section should attend. He wished the t nothing should be decided before Professor Attolico had had the opportunity of oppressing liic opinion on the subject.
The SAC: ::T.'!.Y--yH13EAL thought that since this congress was in the main political and of strong socialistic tendency, it would be prudent to send a member of the Information section only who would act as observer without tailing an active part in the proceedings.
It must be remembered that II. Oudegocst who was a prominent member of the Association was thoroughly conversant with what had been done in the past by the league on the question of disarmament, any final decision must await Professor Attolico *s views.
lifter some discussion it was thought best thrt a member of the Information so- tion should attend as observer and should communict to immediately with the Secretariat if ho thought that the presence of a member of tho disarmament section was desirable.
: «	SIR ARTHUR 8..ITU. gave an account of the progress so far
realised in the work of reconstruction in Austria. Ho explained tho reasons which had led to tho opposition raised by the social
democratic party, and	stated th; t if	.0 two fix	st stops of the	programme
had now been voted.	Satisfactory	p? ogress	was b à nr made ■	with
rog .rd to tho establishment of a Bank of Issue. It was also very gratifying to note the increase in deposits at the tank, a sure proof
of growing confidence on the part of the population
Since the
signature of the Geneva convention the value of the crown had remained static and prices tended to decrease. In conclusion ho rendered a tribute to the work of the .league Delegation in Vienna.
II. Co 111 J: resorted on his mission to the Tear East, he said that he had carefully avoided discussing minorit" questions or the problem of the btraits, as these matters wore at present
being dealt with by the great Powers. He had
go.thered the
impression that the Christian population of Constantinople wore in
a state bordering on panic and that emigration in large numbers
would take place. There was a general feeling that the policy of
the Angora Government was too out rone and it s coined that the
popularity of the ICoranliets in European circles in Constantinoelc
was dwindling, Generally speaking the conceptions^! people of al
nationalities on the spot were different from those as expressed
in the notes of the Great Powers.
As to the question of exchange of populations which Dr- Hansen
had taken up at the request of both the Allied High Commissioners the
and of/Greek Government, the Angora Government had replied only after a great deal of delay and had then made it a condition, if the question was to be settled immediately, that the exchange should bo compulsory and should, include all Greeks including the
stai	itinomlec	Horn	.id	Bey, hov	/over,	had
Gov-.	1 rnm on t/ yjc c ■	i-'erre	d	to allow	the nr	tter to
ninrea ona b me ngui remain over until after the conclusion of the Peace Conference.
Dr. Hansen had not considered the proposals for total and compulsory exchange acceptable and had boon obliged to lot the matter rest for the present.
In private conversation with Hamid .bey, II. Co lb an had gathered that the league was not regarded with favour by the Homalists. Two
reasons given wore:
4
1)	The action of the league with ivg- rd tc d-/pert tion of women which they considered as "n interferonco in their internal aff .irs;
2)	that the league had shown greater interest in the protection of foreign minorities in fur hey than of the Llohamedan minorities in Bulgaria, Ilacedonia and elsev/here;
3)	that the influence of dreat Britain in the league was detrimental tc Turkish aspirations.
Hamid Bey had stated that the Angora Government would he disposed
to sign a minorities Treaty such as had been entered into by other
States, but would on no account agree to go any further.
from Constantinople II. Co lb an had reno to Athens where he had
boon able to study the situation of the Hear East refugees, which he
thought Was a very serious one. The Creel: Government had expressed
its full recognition of the work accomplished by Dr. Hansen.
On his journey out he had passed through Belgrade where he had
been accorded a very gratifying reception, and on his way back to
Geneva he had visited Prague, where he had discussed different
questions regarding minorities. He had found Dr. Benes in general
agreement with him on all points. Thp latter as well as several
officials in the Czechoslovakian Foreign Office also expressed
satisfaction with the discussion on minorities at the Assembly.
II. PJ.PBAED called attention to the fact that during the Assembly
propaganda matter had been inserted in the boxes erected in the
Secretariat for distribution of documents tc delegations.
l}e
THE SECRET AH'Y-GEITERA1 said he feared that this rnirht/unavoidable as these boxes merely took the piece of a post office delivery, but the point should be looked into, so that if possible such actions might bo prevented in future.
DALE? F,ACI-IEL CBA./DY washed to know whether the American delegates on consultative Commissions could be elected to the post of Chairman of the same,and whether they would have power to vote. In this connection it should not bo forgotten that the chairman had the-
5
casting vote.
The SHCPf'TAE Y-GUI!HI. AL said he thought that the ret for such decisions should if possible be throvn on the i delegate.	ho action should be to her: vhich tended to
their election.	He ashed Dr. Van Hamel to stud;; this
sponsibilit iineric an prevent 3 cuestion.
LEAGUE 0? ITA 21 CITS
30
Directors Meeting 64.
Geneva,
Hovember 29th, 1922.
MIIM TES 0? DII.EC TOES 1 MEETIEG,HKLD PIT JEDFBSDAY
ITQYBIBOE 29th, 1922 .
Prosent:-
Secretary-General,
Professor Attolico,
Dr. Hitobe,
Sir Herbert Amos,
Dr. Yen Hamel,
Professor Eapparel,
' fr /I fi >■* -? r> -’H
■Li •	i. -	.
Sir Arthur Salter.
Dame Pachol Crov/dy,
M. Man tot»:,
Mr. Posting,
Mr. Walters	(Secret ry).
1,
The SEGI-ETAI.Y-GI11:IK.11 said that of course the most important question at the moment vas the relation of the league to the lausanne Conference. He thought it was clear that proposals for ashing the league to undertake various duties as guarantor of some of the arrangements to be made, and particularly in connection with Minorities, would be put forward at some period by one of the principal Delegations, hut he had no very clear ideas as to how such proposals would be received by other Delegations.
On the whole he thought that our best supporters were the British Delegation, which was very anvious to give the League new duties in the Hoar mast, but it was, of course, a question whether they would push such a policy if it could lead to differences with other Delegations.
the attitude
Perhaps the deciding factor would he of the Turkish Delegation. Of course the
Prussians would
be against the League, but this was .not.necessarily a source of weakness. The Turkish .Delegation was thinking about -possible advantage i i accepting such proposal3 about the League and in Joining the League therselves, and so first a Press representstive and day t”'0 rer.bers of the Delegation.core - over to have talks with hir and ";i th the Under-Secretari e 3 and Directors. He souls circulate to Under Secretaries General and Directors a short record of his converse PR0*L5GS0R ATTOIICO raised the point whether it would 'be desirable to explain to the Turkish represe that ever) the- Russian opposition to the League was.
to-
tion.
ntative
rore ip show than in reality, and that .they had, at Genoa, not voted against Resolutions which referred to the League.
As against this suggestion, it was urged that it right be better policy not to suggest a via iredla. • but to leave a choice between being for the League or against it. SIR A. StLTLR also suggested that, it was bettor not to insist on the political aspects of co-operation with the technical organs of the League.
PROCESSOR ]nTQTICO sais that the irn-ession he had had' fror the Turkish representatives was that they were Esther nervous of thé powers of the Asserbly - a nervousness which appeared to be based on one:-particular p&st action of that body. Ho Jiad explained that the . Council was really the rain political organ ox' the League, and that decisions in it could not be swayed by a
single big speech, but rust spring fror the convictions
of the various Governirents represented.
protbsio:
?0LIC0
said that one point on which
- 7> -
tho Turks appeared to feel somewhat strongly, rs the fact that they had not been consulted in the nomination of the league’s Commissioner for Deportee YJomon and Children. (This post was offered to Dr. Peet, r-nd on his refusing has neror been filled). The Sccretar,y-G-onor°l pointed cut that the sphere of activity of this Commissioner was Constantinople, ana that when his appointment ’-as proposed, the real authorities in Constantinople were the illiod High Commissioners, whereas the \ngorr Government hud nc standing in Constantinople whatever. This w-s the real reason why it had not beer, consulted, but it was a question hew far it xr. s possible to give this explrnation.
Sir H1RB1KT .'HIPS asked where Turkey would appear on the contribution list, if she were a Member of the Deague»
It was suggested that he should explain how various countries mere assessed, and add that before the assessment for Turkey was mace, she would be given a full
opportunity of expressing her views.
Sir H1RB1KT iL'DS said that, speaking goner 11,y as
regards the Lausanne Conference, ho much hoped tbrt no
arrangement would be made under which the league world
have to undertake expenditure with a crosaect cf
subsequent repayment from various Powers. This would,
he thought, bo dangerous, bee-use the list would be sure
to include one or two States who never paid. The SIC HIT i?:Y-
GDI Hall end others said that they did not think the danger
w-s serious. The Peters in question would be vitally concerned
in the work, and would, therefore, net fail to pay that special
situ; fcicn
contribution, while this	might even one cur'go thorn to
cay up their regular contribution.
6 .
PP. ODD 3 3 OB B APPALL 3aid that further 3tudp of the
•>
documents convinced him that the original proposal trade in the Assembly h:; Sir Arthur Steel -iaitlsnd that the
Le agu	û	should inv	9 S	tigate		the	que	St	ion of	31		or	y.
oar ti	cularlp dire		C t	ed	tov/a	rds	Abp	3 3	inia	m ±ll	0	vu	estion
/a s o	ne	of meat	in	ter	0 3 Xi J	bu	t he		ouId re	S 9	-/• ~r	e	an
acc ou	n t	of it to	• i	lu.- ter r		,eet:	ing.						
	T	HADABIAGA		sai	. -i 4* V» uii	o 4- Cu (j	une	Pa	rranent	All	il	it	arp
C orr i	3 3	ion vas re	et	in g	in	den	eva	on	Decerv.b	,sr	5	th	»
	31	■D ;*T} 'DTTI fD) C»		nyry-rj .iftiri	3 8	id	\jilG. "o	t	he Dele	■ya	ti	on	in
Vienna had now finished the first part ox its task, the necessary Law3 having been passed bp the Austrian Parliament. The Delegation ras no--" assisting in the e 3 teblishrent of the new Bank ox Issue, an ^ was acting in the dace of the High Commissioner, hose anrointrent had not pet been officially male.:	Government note-
printing had stocoed, an l the necessary ronep to reet the difference between receipts and ercoeniiture /as being found bp a Doan fror the Bank of Issue.
5 0	The di	fficultp 7i th	r 'Ward	to	the Bor1
	Convention,	bet /sen Germ	:-np an i	the	Saar G
	Cor mission,	had been com	:le toIp	and	amicab
the recent resting bet/een their representatives and an Arbitration Commission appointed bp the Transit Commission at Luxembourg.. All arranger.on ts for this mooting had boon carried out bp H. Haas, /ho he thought deserved very hearty congratulations on his success in camping: out a very difficult piece of work.
~P 'L-.^DDUX said that r further frontier quo stion-thct between Hungary and Csecho-Slovekia - had been referred to the Council b- the Hungarian Government.
The renort of the Delimitation Gorrission had not pet been received, and wo could not take f
*ny. • * •
5
action on the matter until it had been. The case was
analogou		o	tc	: th- t	of t	he fron	.tier be twee	n Hungary •	■nd
the	Serb	-C	t* r	: at-31c	vene	State,	i,e. the C	ouncil had	no
powe	r of	Q	nfcrcing		1 a d	ecision	but wn s mo	rely asked	to
exc r	c i so	i	ts good		off i	cos i n	securing a	p g f ^ i er^c,yit	ty
ngre	e men	t .		Such c	uses	were ,	he thought,	most	
unea	tisf	^C	tory, an		6 he	hoped	there would	hot be mcny of	
th on	in	J.' lt.	o	f ut ur e	a				
LEAGUE Or IUT10Mb
48
distributed to Inder-secretaries-general ,nd Directors.
Directors .teeting 65
ueneva,
December 7th.1322
MIMUTES OF DIRECTORS*
^ETIMG HELD 01
WEDliESDAY. DECILLBER 6th. 1022.
Secretary-General.
Li» O.ionnet.
Professor Attolieo.
Dr. Tit ohé.
Sir Herbert Ames.
:.lr. Colbcn.
Li. Ooraert.
Prof es ci or Rapperd.
Li. Haas...
Maj or Abraham.
Dr. Van Hamel*.
M. Madariaga.
Mr. Dixon.
Dr. Rajchraan.
Dame Rachel Coowdy.
Mr. Walters (Secretary)
1.
The' bECRETEMIY-GEMEFuE referred to the draft agenda of the Council meeting which had been circulated in the Secretariat. As regards the.date of the meeting, he thought that it could not be much latter than Monday, January 15th. and ashed what was the opinion of the Directors as to that date.
Mr. COLBAM said that it would suit him particularly well, as he might have to do some business
in Paris or London before the meeting, and this would enable him to get it done after the Christmas holiday.
The date was generally agreed to, and the SECRETARY-GKMERmL said that he would write to M. da Gama
0ii the subject, ana would also see him in London the following week.
(a)	As regards the Agenda, hr. CCIBAI said that he estimated the minorities questions would taxe, in Council meeting, one day, Saar questions one day, ana Danzig half a d
(b)	It was pointed out that the Report on Austria would take the form of a report from the Sub-Committee of the Council to the Council.
Professor APTOilCO suggested that the Sub-Committe should be osked to meet a day or two before.
This suggestion was generally agreed to, and it was decided that, if possible, they should be brought together on the 12th. or 13th. January.
(c)	Professor RAPPAEL said that there was one item which could not, at present, he placed on the agenda, namely, a report from the Mandates Commission on the procedure to be followed in the case of petitions from inhabitants of mandate areas. He could not get all the necessary answers out of
the members of the Committee.
The SECRETARY-GERERAI asked him to write a rather strong letter to the members, pointing out that the Council was meeting in January, and that it was desirable to have the report ready.
As regards Rapporteurs, the SECRETARY-GENERAL invited opinion as to whether it would be well to ask the two new Members of the Council to act at the January meeting for any question.
Opinion was generally that they would prefer to wait until they had had experience of the working of one meeting.
The SECRETARY-GERERAI said that, in view of this
O -
opinion, he would suggest to the ^resident what he should send a statement to the representatives of suedon end Uruguay, explaining that he had thought they would prefer not to "be ashed to act this time, etc.
In this connection, there was the general question of whether-, when x new Council began work, it would be advisable to change to some extent the allocation of recurring subjects between the different Members of the Council.
It was generally agreed that this was desirable,
Mr. COLBÀL: adding that, so far as his subjects were concerned, he had reason to think that the new Japanese Representative would be glad to be relieved of the duty of acting as Rapporteur on Danzig questions.
As regards the publicity of the Council, the SDCRhljiRY-GUIiLRAh said he would ask Major Buxton to consult the various Directors, and propose a schedule ox questions which could be taken in public.
Dr. RkJCHMAJ. asked whether a Report from Dr, Dans en would figure on the agenda. The Epidemics Commission of the League 'was now coning into contact with the work done by Dr. Dansen in Greece, and he found that the responsibility of the High Commissariat rested, so far as he knew, on a much less well-defined basis than that of any other organisation of the League. He presumed that Dr. 1ansen was responsible to the Council, and askeci:
(a)	was he in any way responsible to the Secretariat ?
(b)	to whom were the persons responsible who were working for Dr. Hansen in the Secretariat? In any case, should not
a report on what he had done be formally presented to the Council and discussed by it?
4
The SECEETARY-GRIIERAL pointed cut that a report had been formally presented, and any member could raise any question he liked cn it, in which case, of course, hr. iansen would be asked to attend the Council and answer any questions, hr. Hansen1s position in this matter was, indeed, somewhat anomalous, he had been authorised by the Assembly to place his Russian Refugees organisation at the services of the refugees from Asia Minor, and the Council, with the approval of the Assembly, had voted 100.000 Sold Francs for the increased organisation expenses involved. An appeal was then made in the Assembly for Government help for relieving refugees, and a number of Governments had responded, hr. Nansen was in no way responsible to the Secretary-General (though he was always willing to accept advice, if offered). He was responsible to the Council, as regards his organisation, for which the League bears the expense. As regards the administration of the funds contributed by Governments, while perhaps not technically responsible to the Council, he was, of course, practically bound to report to it.
Was it, in these circumstances, wofcth whi putting the question on the agenda ?
In reply to hr, Rajchman, he pointed out that there was not a strict analogy between this question and that of plucii g on the agenda the reports of the technical organisations, for these reports required action by the Council before they could be dealt with executively, whereas Lr„ Jansen had his own executive power.
sn: h. :?3' ;?.t ad
Jb ^om'
out tli-: t the oucstion
would uiton..tieally cone up very shortly since :
(c.) The- 100.000 !o Id Irenes wee ru rly exhausted, (b) The Supervisory Commission would probably h-.vc sono-thins1 to s ;* .tout the auditing of the v: rious
ing to S;	.TT
bated fur	id s
- —T. — - - J	j. -'v_.
■ iy i.-Nji.i, . J _	L/ li
I-» 1 on:IT thought that both for -oho sake of the League and for I-r. Nansen* s own sake, it w.s advisable that a report iron him should fi rare on the rrondo. If any harbor of the Council wished to sussest that Dr. Hansen1s mandate should now so. .so, it was not fair to leave the whole initiative in the natter to such a LI ember of the Council.
He thought it quite cert: in. th t no such promos. .1 would bo made, and that the Council would only seek how it could assist Dr. Nansen in carrying out his work successfully. But oven if there was : chance that difficulties would arise, it was our duty to wive the Council a reasonable opportunity of discuss ion.
Dr. 7,'ii; II/J.3L expressed a sirr.il; r opinion.
The ShCIh:?; BY- TUTJR.-i-L sa id he was quite re; dy to su-roost to Dr. Nansen that he should nut in a Progress Report, covering his work up to the date of the Council; that this ronort should bo submitted at a Council I looting; and that Dr. Nansen, or a. represent tire, should be present to answer any questions. This would give any ilember of the Council full opportunity to r; isc whatever question he wished.
PROFNSbQE -IT TO LI CO said he strongly doubted the wisdom of putting such .an item on the agenda. Tire Council would be in r most omo rraseing position, for it might not
o
hr.vc the necessary el omen ti.- rt i tf- disvosrl to --lo ? 1:7 IPrribcr to put-?:? t the cos se tion of the nr nel? te, i nå thus rould hr.vc pr? ctierlly no It emotive hut tc our or. e the ration t..kcn, rhich it might not redly desire to do. He pointed out th. t dr. lira:sor.1 s position vis-'-vis the frock
.. -£u, — r
1 Z a.-^
os was ouito different from his position vis-à-vis the
Pn.seiron E<
Id. C0IA..R? suid thr
:o could not under-
me	was at a	loss	to answer	quo	i t*: on
He	askod how	the (	Council eu	aid	pire
r- v, r* < .JU t*	pparcntly	unlir	dted task	, UP	to a:
000	^; v-,no ■ T7> X \ UiO U 4 k • V	:.s the mandate		oxha	usted
when the money was spent ?
Hr. CO LB All pointed, out that Ir. Urns on Ts functions rero condor:.
(a.) He was asked to co-ordinate, so fur us his ornr.nisr.tion r. 11 owed, the work in favour of refugees from Asia dir.or. On this ho thought r.o further report should he placed cn the agenda.
(h) Further action, of r. political nature, hrd coon taken hy him in connection with this tr.sk, out hosed -.rimer ily on the request of the High Commissioners in Constantino do.
The Council had boon informed of this action, and r.o enaction had been asked, but it could not be sr id that it h: d beer-endorsed. Should a report on this action be placed on the agenda or not ?
Dr. P.AJCHT.AIT said that Dr. Hansen was dealing with four lines of action :
(1)	He had to enquire into the situation. This he had
done.
m h,
T“'	' Q
m ■ iK,
: X: r .8 hc x?ns -hl , to c rr” .rat • otu 1 relief. This ho could not effectively do for Imh .of funds. The oa ric;,n Rex Gross . t 8.000.000 loll rs to a vend, rhilo Ir. linsen had only » SO.000.
( T: \ V !	He h	d	r	is ed th		• 11 g n	of fi	re ueci 1 :.r.	sis t. .nee
for th:	i., , , 1 _	'-O'	r	il ±- ^ *		• 0 lid,	~u <- ■+■ ÍI V b	bought, r.	tur - .lly
he d It	T-’i th	by	th	c icono	nie a	„ _ , A - -	-1-3 i ■	1 \^rv-;v-- 4 ft 	 .V . 1. . J_ U L/ «.	
(4)	-	r	Lie	rt.i t.'-e	n c ec	ti tie	-in o 1- r	tunen the	~\~c o • * It ct
uc the	Tur ho	en	or	eh n~o	of ‘'0	ml ti	-in O uKS,	X* ' ~b Cl"x j. X Ol	’iV 1 Q,V'. : X „ ». .■ w/ - - -i- k ^
etc. 'Tlii	s ”ork	h	" d	nor cor.	e to	:u end	;> , • /*» i	■ use the i	. u e ; ,r.no
Confer on	co had	t ;	- if- ^	n it ur	, OK	ir. r	î~ F Cl : *	s initinti	vr ' ' •
	Thus	o:	-1-T	iy.r co uli 1 • ».	0 0 2 : c	of the	four	lines of	action res
no it continu ins: i		mdor Ir. i- n: or	> T ... r
thou ùt	th t it	\7c s tino ir. Ih	usen
C: no to	m end.	hut if it were	to 0
airaction. Ho person; lly vr.ru'.i a .■. m tur n* t ,or
ou 1 position should ho ru.do ele;.r.
The STCRTT ?vi-0~'I!TüI..L thought th-: t the constitutional
1er, and tint hr. iienc on cg ;ho Oounoil ; lone.
■VFi cior. ras. in í.:o¡-, vre tty c directly responsible to th
mint. me a ni; tror est
In the course o
’t.-i
1 J'.U
1 -T >
by i r.
the	Co-	moil	: nd	GO	th	G;
.ief,	h	C 7> • v	ron 1	-iy	th	ond
¡ill	0 X	ÖOKF	la or;	h 1c	v	elu
r- i th	y» X	c- T rd	to '	blio	Trogr	
Of f	ur	th- r	.. is or	: - F Î	on	, i
	; .	: red £	ir h:	~ T~ " ,1\jT>. j	a \ 1	. a.x.
11 ?/; s ur re ci
rues ciceir.to ele. r un the situation ¿ s
-• re
k.	I
■"0 f i g3.0r.
of ir. IT.- ns on’ o coll: bom tors now working in the Socrctari: t, nd ■ ;? re ~ rds the d~ in if tr tior. of the contributed funds.
r:^~"ëfOR T.TivlIOO further omh sisea the dm-or involv d in . dis ru scion of th<- rue ti on by the Council. end
11 v:
line. II v . •'•roe d that the mu tt r rhould fimre on the avénele
e
merely as a Progress Report or rather as two Progress Reports:
(a)	On Russian Refugees.
(b)	On Rear Eastern Refugees.
and that no Resolution should be submitted for the consideration of the Council.
Dr. YAH EAI.IRX said he wished once more to emphasise his view that there was a serious element of danger in the present relations between Dr. Hansen and the Deague.
6.	Dr. RAJCHI1AH said that the Health Committee was meeting on January 8th.
7.	IM HAAS said that in January three Hub-Committees of the Transit Commission would meet:
(1)	To discuss the question ox Opium in Free Ports, in collaboration with the Opium Committee.
(2)	To disouss, in collaboration with the Health Committee, the question of the spread of epidemics
a1ong wate rways.
(3)	a meeting of railway experts to draft the Railway Convention.
6.	Sir B5RB3RT AMES said that he had learnt
with satisfaction from the Directors that there was no great likelihood of special expenditure in January, February and March.
9.	Dr. HITQBE said that three Sub-Committees of the Committee on Intellectual Co-operation would meet in Peris shortly. Each would sit for two days, i.e. a week in all.
10.	The SECRETARY-GENERAL said that he was going to Paris and then to London on Sunday, and
would be back about the 21st. He further intended to take about ten days holiday at Christmas.
LEAGUE O? HAT I OlIS.
•) f
f*»	0 0
Dlstr ibuted to Under-	Directors Mina t os lio.66 .
^.cotariog-fténoral
am ¡_'Di tosa jr	Gen ora,
December 20th,1922.
DILUTES OF DjRBCTOES 1 HEP T III G HE I A) OH v/EDITESDAY, DECEMBER loth. 1922.
Present:
Professor Attolico.
Dr ITitobe,
Sir Herbert Anes,
Ur. Co lb an,
M. Comert,
Hr, Ad rath am,
M. Ease,
Dr. Eajchnan,
Professor Euppard ,
Dane Eachel Crowd",
Dr. van Hanoi,
LI. Madariaga,
Mr. Walters (Secretary).
(For iten 1, MI.I. ITogueira and Aracha were presentí.
1»	The meeting considered the document which had been
circulated with regard to the working of the Latin American Bureau.
M. AEOCEA explained the principle of geographic division on which a part of the plan was based. He explained that the division was mainly geographical but partly political. The proposal was that the Latin American countries should be divided into three groups:
(1)	Central America.
(2)	The "Boli\iann group.
(3)	The "Austral” group.
This grouping was convenient in itself,and, by coincidence, it had the advantage that one of the three members of the Bureau belonged to each group.
o
Cj
LI. CQIImT.T pointed out that it was ab a o lutely noc ossary that side by side with this division should o>:ist sono sort of division by subjects amongst the members of the Bureau, It would, in pr. ctico, undoubtedly bo found necessary that the members of the Bureau should keep then so Ives, and bo kept, on ecu runt with special sides of the v/ork of the Secret-riot: and us regards those particular sides, they would, of course, have to collaborate in the liaison with countries not belonging to their particular group.
It was generally agreed that the principle proposed was acceptable, but the t it was necessary to emphasise the necessity that there should be a very full collaboration between all the .members of the Bureau in regard to liaison with all tho countries concerned.
A large number of details were discussed, and it was agreed that tho memorandum should bo re-circulated after tho various points agreed on had boon embodied in it.
2.	PROPASaOh Af TOT ICQ said that as regards tho
Lausanne Conference, it was clear that a discussion of groat importance was going on regarding the minorities question.
II. COInl.T gave the meeting the latest information ho had received, according to which Lord Curzon had made a very satisfactory declaration as to the attitude of the groat Powers in this matter, and Ismct Pasha's opposition . to the League should not, for the moment, bo taken too serious ly.
3
On RE 0 .'S3 S OK Af fOLIC 0* L invitation, In COIIURP explained a question us to which ho had h: d seno or chango of views with the Rap is try. Ee desired that all requests for inf orne, ti on one nu ting iron private people or institutes and associations (ns opposed to
. bod	i :S)	should	bo	o V. !	ou t d	ir o	ct to tho
on,	which	wou Id	an	sw	or th	cr: »	ft or
. tho	Sect	ion coi	ee		>J m 9	mi-, - XX -U	Legistry
muid	be d	ifficult		f 0	r it	to	decide wha
o c+ O	tho	informa	ti	on	Sect	ion	and -.hieh
to tho Section concerned.
After sonc discussion, it y.ts : greed that no change should he nude in tho existing system, hut that it should he understood that any request for such inforna-tion received by a Section should ho brought to the knowledge of tho Information Section through Inter-nodiary of the number of that Section specially charged with keeping liaison v/ith tho Section concerned, and that it should he decided, : ftor consultation, -..hat reply should ho sent, and by whom.
4.	SR. EAJCHilnll, at tho request of Professor Attolico ,
explained his plan for tho publication of the reports drawn up under the auspices, and at the expense, of *; ho Health Section of tho League on the Standardisation of Ser-. The number of reports was between 32 and 36. fhoir scientific vr luo was high: their public ti w was necessary, and his plan was to give thorn to the principal journals dealing with such questions in Paris, London a<nd Berlin, respectively. Lno journals would print tho reports in a single volume at our expense, and circulate then, at their own expenses, to all their
5
of the hulk of the publicist ion, hut he had estimated the cost at £>000 Francs.
DR. VVF ErL'ZL said that in any case the necessity of publication was only a relative necessity.
He had no objection to the action proposed, in view of the fact that it would present the report^ in a much mere attractive manner, iurther, he did not object to a German edition, though this must not form a precedent.
Id- COURT said that it would not he a case of giving a subvention to journals, hut of purchasing copies of special supplements for free distribution.
This action was allowed by the Assembly, which had made an appropriation for the purpose.
1.1?.. CO LB/. IT thought thrt there was no need to raise any question of principle, the present work being so entirely technical thrt it could not be assimilated to the work of other Sections,. He questioned whether the free distribution money could be used as M. Comert suggested. He did not object to publication in German in such a case, or to publication in any other language that might appear desirable.
PRO?.BAFRAUD thought that the proposal was really
an i '-possible one. It stultified the whole action of the
Free Distribution Committee ”-hich could never now refuse
to erive away e.m. our dccnomic nublicstions to any applicant s	''	three
Moreover the question must be asked why only ■ /countries, one not a member of tie league, should st>ecirlly benefit?
Me should have ourselves to arrange to distribute large quantities e.g. in Italy Spain anr •' - ih V.erica, even if we did not do so in their own langua.ges.
6
M. IL1I)AF:IA.1\ suggested that the Journals concerned should net issue the documents as a supplementary number of their cvm publication, hut should have a document in regular League form printed by their printers and distributed as a present by them to their own subscribers.
I'P.. R.\JO H PUT said that he ?ss prepared to meet the cost out of the budget of the Health Section.
PP.OFHSSQ?. ATTQLICC said that if printing by the journals was agreed to, he thought the scheme proposed by M. Ixidariaga was the right one. He was entirely opposed to the plan which he foresaw would make it very difficult to refuse a groat increase in free distribution in all sorts of fields. It was true that this was a very technical natter, but so were a good many others dealt with by the Secretariat.
He would, however, leave the matter tc the Sec ret® ry-G-eneral's decision.
LEAGUE 0? NAï IOUó
43
-Distributed to	Directors’meeting- 67
f^Td ¿¿^secretaries -General □r.r Directors >
Geneva, December 2 2th,„ 1922.
MIIIUTSS OF DIRECTORS MEET IDG HELD 01 Thursday, December 21st. 1922.
Present : Secretary-General
i'»i 4 lionnet
air Herbert Ames Dr* van Hamel *;*r. Golban u* Villari Dr. Rajohmann iu. Raopard
1<1 • Hv-l L» b
.,1a j or Abraham II. Madariaga ii. Kara da
II. Aro cha (for Item I.°16) Secretary iicLr.. Walters.
The Secretary-General said that he had no special nev;s to give as a result of his visit to London, the results of which had, however, he thought, been very satisfactory. The position of
Ithe League in Great Britain was very strong. Out of 600 liemhers of Parliament, four were its avowed opponents, 25 declared themselves indifferent, and the rest v/ere declared supporters. .There were 200 Members of Parliament in the Los uo of Rations Union Parliamentary Committee and a small number of moon supporters of the League who were not supporters of the Union, which made, say 250, Members who were actually keenly interested in the League.
As regards the date of the Council, which he had discussed both in London and Paris, the conclusion had been reached for curious reasons that January S5th. was the best possible date, and
2
convocations were being sent out accordingly. It would fellow that the date of the Austrian Sub-Committee Meeting would be January 23rd. He thought it probable that lord Salfour would be the British Representative at this meeting,.
The Directors were now aware nt the fact of M. Monnet’s resignation. He was glad to say that M. Monnet would be here until the 1st of February. He would not attempt to give expression
%
to his foolings in regard to the loss which the Secretariat was suffering, for it was quite impossible to do so. Ho successor could take M. uonnctls place but he thought that the decision which ho had taken was the best that could be made in the circumstances. Li. ^%'enol had great experience of the work of the league and particularly of the Austrian question with which he would, as Deputy Secretary-General, be specially concerned.
Dr. van Hamel expressed, on behalf of all the Directors, their agreement with what the Secretary-General had said about the loss of Li. iionnet,
Li. Rappard said that he was finding it almost impossible to get answers from the members of the mandates Commission to the question put by the Council in regard to a method of dealing with petitions from mandated areas. He was, however, making every effort to do so.
He referred to a dossier which was being circulated showing the publicity results in connection with the meetings of various Committees. He thought this a very useful collection and hoped that it would be prepared in future with regularity in respect of every meeting. LI. Villari said that he kept monthly statistics of every question mentioned in the Italian papers. He believed that other members of the Information Section were going to do the same thing.
Li, Rappard mentioned that he had sent a memorandum to
the Secretary-General on the question of free distribution for
3
which he thought it desirable that as definite rules as possible should be laid down.
7$.	la. Villuri gave impressions of a recent visit to Lausanne,
ne gatnered that while amongst the lurks there were two parties, viz., Rro-bestern and Anti-Vvestern, the balance had now strongly inclined towards the former. This was due in particular:
(1)	to irritation against the Russians who had adopted an attitude of speaking on behalf of Turkey as well as on behalf of the various Soviet Republics.
(2)	to the intervention of the United States from whom they hoped for financial help. The decision of Turkey to join the League meant a serious split with Russia. Lord Curzon had throughout strongly supported a policy of using the League, and in this the other great Rowers had backed him up.
Sir Herbert Ames asked whether the question of a special meeting of the Assembly had been raised in this connection.
The Secretary-General pointed out that the Council could oall Such a meeting by a majority if it wished, and there were enough Council Members at Lausanne to make it certain that the Meeting would be called if the Conference thought it desirable. The matter was one, therefore, which had better be left to the Conference unless, of course, other .members of the League chose to raise it.
8.	M. Madariaga referred to the failure of the Disarmament
Conferences at Ly?soov/. The Rolish Delegation had promised to prepare a statement upon the matter which could be sent for information to the Military Commissions and to the Council. Generally speaking, the difficulty had arisen from the fact that the Bolsheviks who had already, by force of circumstances, had to reduce their army very largely, wanted to begin to negotiate on the basis of a pro-rata reduction, roland and the other limitroph countries wanted to have such reduction made possible by a Ract of nnn-aggression on the lines of Lord Robert Cecil’s proposals at Geneva, and this the Russians had refused.
-4-
9.	date of the meeting of the Temporary Llixed Commission
was not yet settled.
10»	li. Harada said that the three sub-commissions of the Com-
mittee on Intellectual Co-operation were working slowly but quite smoothly at Paris. A short discussion followed with regard to the work of the Committee.
Sir Herbert Ames expressed some apprehension a3 to the material means of dealing with all the answers that might come in to the various questionnaires which were being prepared to be sent out on behalf of the Committee.
had
The Secretary-Ceneral said that he had/some talk oq the matter in Paris with Dr, Nitobq, who had explained that 4 members of the Committee, or co-opted experts, were going to handle a large part of the work.
Sir Herbert Ames said that he knew of this arrangement whioh he thought was on very business-like lines, but he was not sure whether allowance had been made for the vast amount of material which might be received.
I.L. Rappard and Dr- Bajohmann both said that the?/ ¿bought the whole matter of the activity of the Committee should be discussed at a meeting when Dr. Nitobe and Professor Halecki returned, as there seemed to be a somewhat sceptical spirit in University circles on the matter, which ought to be taken into account.
11.	Sir Herbert Ames raised the question of the publication
by the Secretariat of a series of short pamphlets giving the history of individual questions which had been dealt with and settled by the league. Tie monthly Summary provided a "horizontal” account of what the mcague was doing® He wanted also a series of what might be called "perpendicular" pamphlets. This idea was, he knew, very much in M. Comert's mind. If it were agreed that the time had now come at vsrhich such work which, of course, was propaganda, could be properly undertaken by the Secretariat, he saw no reason
-5-
why we should not ask the Foubth Committee at the next Assembly to sanction a grant of say 100^000 francs for the preparation and distribution of such productions.
Majo:• Abraham pointed o'^t that so far as political questions wore concerned, it was necessary to be very careful not to open wounds which had now been healed, and also that it would be very difficult to write a history which would be acceptable in all its details to all the Governments concerned.
Dr. van Hamel said that it should further not be forgotten that in every case we were not in possession of the whole of the facts, and. that as regards certain questions, such as Upper Silesia or the Aaland Islands which, sc far as the League was concerned, wore now closed, v’e had no means of being kept exactly informed as to the development of events subsequent to the action of the League.
Tho Seeretary-G■-■n~ral Said that he felt the force of these arguments and the action suggested could not be applied to every question, Eo thought, however, that the general policy suggested was sound, and that it was advisable for the Information Section to consult with every Director and arrange for the different series to be compiled by each Section at times when it had, comparatively speaking, a reduced pressure of work. Thus the time between now and the assembly would not bo lost.
12.	Sir Herbert Ames said that the financial position was better than ho had expected at this time. One or two States owing arrears of contributions had offered to pay these arrears in instalments at the same time as they paid their fixed contribution for each year.
13.	M.Kaas said that there was one point of interest to relate in connection with the Paris Conference of Railway Administrations which had mot as a result of the Genoa Conference, namely, that the Conference had now decided at the request of the Russian Government to admit Russia as a member.
I.îr. Col ban referred to the Assembly decision as to a general
enquiry by the Secretariat regarding the condition of Minoritiesu The object of this resolution hud, of course, been to establish a political equality between the various Member3 of the League. His Section had not yet boon ablo to do any work on this question owing to insufficient staff»
Ho thought it night bo nocossary at some future Directors Hooting to discuss the question of the financial relations between the Secretariat and the Labour Office-,
The Secretary-General explained that tho Labour Office had throe possible sources of revenue:
(1)	Thoir proportionate share of each contribution received.
(2) Thoir proportionate share of the working capital,
(3) Their proportionate share of any loan that was raised,
It was true that the International labour Office had found it
necessary to spend practically the whole of thoir budget, and would,
therefore, probably have to uso all throe sources referred to, which
amounted to saying that they wore spending moro than their income.
This, however, was a matter which would have to be discussed by the and
Governing Body/eventually by tho Assembly* Dr. Rajchmann mentioned that tho I.L.O. was offering a prizo of, ho thought, 2,000 S'.'iss francs for the best ossay in Polish on tho organisation«
Tho Secretary-General said that M. Noblemaire could not attend a mooting of tho Supervisory Commission in January, and it might, therefore, bo necessary to postpone the mooting till February, since otherwise, owing to Sir James AllonTs resignation, there would bo only tho three numbers,. Tie Commission must recommend an auditor for nomination by the Council but this could perhaps bo dono by correspond one0.
The Secretary-General said there was one Question on
which he wished to consult the Directors. A letter had been received from the Government of Honduras confirming its previous decision to resign from tho Deague on political grounds, and asking that this decision might be communicated to all the ^embers of the -league without delay,. his personal feeling was that it would be undignified and a mistake not to take the action asned for. It had been propose^ to asm Dr. Hudson to go to Washington and consult the State department and also the representative of Honduras there. He was rather doubtful about this, and in any case he felt clear that we must officially announce the action of Honduras before the meeting of the Santiago Conference.
Li. Arocha said that he thought the example of Honduras would not be without some effect and it v/as important to try and avoid any other Central American etate from following it. The countries particularly concerned were Salvador and Guatemala, both of which always acted a good deal in concert with Honduras. He wished to suggest the possibility of sending one or two persons of real authority in Europe to visit Central America, accompanied by u member of the Diaison Bureau.
Sir Herbert Ames pointed out that Guatemala had seemed to be very keen to stay in the Deague.
Dr, van Hamel strongly urged that no precipitate action should be taxon. He thought the decision of Honduras was partly inspired by feelings towards the United States and partly perhaps by a comparatively irresponsible impulse in Honduras itself. He thought therefore that we should wait:
fl) To consult 3. Rodriguez who would be hero next month.
(2)	To see whether Hudson could send any information from Washington.
(3)	To talk things over with the Brazilian and Uruguayan ■“’"■embers of the Council in January.
It was decided to write immediately to Hudson and to take no further action for the moment.